Malaika slams user who trolled her for 'divorcing rich man' .
From her special numbers to TVappearances, Bollywood actor Malaika Arora Khan has managed to carve her own identity. The actor, who made her debut in the Hindi film industry with the blockbuster debut opposite Shah Rukh Khan in Chaiyya Chaiyya from Dil Se (1998), is still remembered for the song. However, for trolls, she is a woman first and what matters right now is that she divorced a rich man.  On Wednesday, Malaika Arora shared a gorgeous picture of herself on Instagram and a follower decided to troll her for using her alumni (read alimony) money to wear short clothes and going to gym or salon. Little did he/she know that the Munni Badnam star would reply with the perfect comeback. Take a look at the interaction:     Super excited to be affiliated with Khanna Jewellers @khannajewellerskj as their brand ambassador. Crafted to perfection, their stunning statement jewellery is a must have for every jewellery lover. #khannajewellers...#maksquad #hair @hairbypriyanka #stylist @manekaharisinghani #manager @ektakauroberoi #mua @subbu28 #photographer @prasdnaik A post shared by Malaika Arora Khan (@malaikaarorakhanofficial) on Aug 2, 2017 at 6:20am PDT Then, Malaika decided to reply: The entire conversation only proves that no matter if a woman is successful, she will be attacked the moment she decides to step out of bounds the society decided for her. Apart from being a successful woman who lives life on her own terms, Malaika has literally played all the roles traditionally prescribed for a woman - she married quite early, had a son and raised him and was always around with the khandan. But then, she got divorced and alimony is the taunt being thrown at her. The details of the alimony are only known to Malaika, her husband Arbaaz Khan and perhaps the family. The couple has handled the divorce with the utmost dignity. But we can vouch for the fact that she did not  need an alimony to buy clothes (short or not, her choice), go on vacations and enjoy her life. If anything, she is as successful, if not more, than her ex-husband.What happened between Arbaaz and Malaika is their personal concern. But to claim that Malaika married and then divorced Arbaaz for money doesnt hold water. For those who do not agree, please get a course in feminism and for others, heres a playlist of some of her most popular songs. Follow @htshowbiz for more