Cricketers question 25 lakh award for select women players.
The Committee of Administrators decision to make one-time payments to a few former women cricketers has left the Indian cricket board (BCCI) in a bind as it is now being approached by more players seeking similar benefits.BCCI sources say they have received five-six applications where some women cricketers have questioned the basis for awarding cheques to only a few, claiming they too deserve money.A top board official from South Zone told HT: The CoAs decision to give those one-time cheques has left us in a quandary. There are five-six players already who want similar cheques. The problem is authenticating each and every application that is coming our way. Records of some of the players are not even available and cross-checking for authenticity is very difficult.READ | Anurag Thakur wont shy away from accepting BCCIresponsibilityIn addition to the one-time cheques, handed over at the IPL opening ceremony in April, the Supreme Court-appointed CoA had also pushed for a monthly pension of Rs 15000 for former women cricketers who have played between one and four Tests.Although there were reports that BCCI had approved that in a June meeting, sources say the issue is still in limbo as it is yet to be approved by the treasurer. Those who have played 10 or more Tests are expected to get Rs 22,500 per month.The official said the decision on pension is likely to make matters worse.The board officials are peeved because all these ex-cricketers played under the aegis of Womens Cricket Association of India, which ran the game until BCCI took over. The BCCI officials says they dont even have the records of the applicants to authenticate their claims.Row over paymentsThe CoA, which has former India womens team skipper, Diana Edulji, as a member, had asked BCCI to give one-time payments to six women players. Deepa Kulkarni, Sangita Dabir and Arundhati Ghosh got Rs 25 lakh each while Behroze Edulji, who is Dianas sister, Sunita Singh and Vrinda Bhagat were given Rs 15 lakh each.These amounts were approved after much drama as it was considered a policy decision that could only be taken by the BCCI general body and not CoA. However, the BCCI eventually relented.READ |Accolades pour in for India for entering ICCWomens WorldCup semisThe same thing is happening with the pension also as it is a policy decision and needs to be taken at general body level, the official said.Sunita Singh had played two Tests and 18 ODIs while Vrinda Bhagat played two Tests and 11 ODIs. Behroze had played just one Test.The feeling in the Board circles is that the CoA didnt take into account the gravity of the issue.