SBI ATM dispenses fake 2000 notes having churan lable strip.
At a time when many people are struggling to withdraw cash, a State Bank of India ATM in South Delhis Sangam Vihar dispensed fake Rs 2,000 notes. The notes, which could be passed off as genuine at first glance, are replete with errors and seem to be a prank at peoples expense. The notes, dispensed on February 6, read Children Bank of India  in place of Reserve Bank of India and Guaranteed by the Childrens Government in place of Guaranteed by the Central Government. Churan lable in place of the latent image  and a fake PK logo instead of the banks seal, are among some of the other obvious deviations on the note.  .fakenote_boxwrap {width:auto; font-family: "Open Sans"; padding:10px; background-color:#eee7ce; float:left}.fakenote_box1 ul {width:95%; line-height:24px; text-decoration:none; list-style:none; margin:10px; padding-left:0px; margin-left:0px; font-size:130%; float:left}.fakenote_h1 {font-size:110%; font-weight:normal; padding-left:5px; margin-bottom:10px}.fakenote_tophead {width:100%; font-size:170%; color:#F00; line-height:24px; font-weight:bold; margin-top:0px; margin-bottom:10px; text-transform:uppercase; padding-left:5px; margin-top:10px; float:left}.fakenote_text1 {width:98%; font-size:110%; color:#F00; font-weight:bold; margin-top:5px; padding-left:5px; float:left}.fakenote_img {width:auto; float:left}.cricketmargin {width:100%; height:10px; border-bottom:1px dotted #000; float:left}.clrboth {clear:both}Spot the difference1. Bharatiya Manoranjan Bank instead of Bharatiya Reserve Bank2. Serial number 0000003. Rupee sign missing4. Churan Lable instead of strip with leaf markings5. P.K. logo instead of RBI seal6. I promise to pay the barer two thousand coupens (sic) instead of I promise to pay the bearer the sum of two thousand rupees7. Governors signature missing8. Churan Lable instead of the Ashok emblem9. Children Bank of India instead of Reserve Bank of India10. Guaranteed by the Children Government instead of Gauranteed by the Central GovernmentConfirming the development, a senior police officer said that the ATM first dispensed four such Rs 2,000 notes to a customer.  We sent a sub-inspector to verify the allegations. He withdrew one Rs 2,000 note and that also turned out to be fake, the officer said, adding that the other notes in the bundle were genuine.The man left with the fake notes has been identified as Rohit, a customer care executive at a call centre located in South Delhis Chhattarpur. He had visited the SBI ATM at around 7.45pm on February 6 to withdraw Rs 8,000. But all the four notes I withdrew were fake, he alleged. Rohit noticed the deliberate mistakes on the notes like promise to pay the bearer two thousand coupons and Serial number 000000 and immediately brought it to polices notice after which a sub-inspector was sent to the ATM located at the T-Point of Tigri in Sangam Vihar.The policeman was unable to find any other customer with a similar complaint, so he withdrew a note from the ATM. The note that was dispensed confirmed Rohits allegations.Police said they are yet to identify the people behind this. A case of manufacturing documents resembling currency notes, using forged or counterfeit notes and of cheating has been registered at Sangam Vihar police station under IPC sections 489-b, 489-e and 420. An SBI spokesman has said they will be sending a team to investigate the matter. 