3-year-old sexually assaulted by school staffer in Bengaluru.
In yet another shocker from the city, a three-and-a-half-year old girl was sexually assaulted in her nursery school located in Bellandur by the supervisor who was later arrested. The incident came to light on Friday when the girl upon returning from school complained about pain in her private part and after some questioning by her parents, she told them that, 'Manju Bhaiya,' who works in her school had put his finger in there.The parents immediately rushed to the school and confronted principal Dr. Veena who initially denied the possibility of such an incident taking place. However, the little girl identified the man and said that the incident has happened 5-6 times.The parents then took their little one to the nearby Sakra hospital for a thorough check up. It was the hospital authorities who asked the parents to register an FIR without waiting for the school to do so. The father of the victim tells us that initially Dr. Veena was willing to register an FIR but later on only said the school would provide support and nothing more. He told India Today that she was adamant that the incident did not take place and hence would not register an FIR against the supervisor who has worked for more than 8 years in the school.On Friday evening while at the hospital itself, the parents with the help of the security staff at the Sakra hospital filed a complaint with the police. The father of the victim said that the constables came to the hospital and began to take down the complaint. But when they heard what he had to say, they immediately stopped writing and asked him to come with them to the police station. Later on in the evening, the police along with the victim's father went to the nursery school and demanded the supervisor address. He was immediately arrested and booked under the very stringent POCSO Act.On Monday as word spread, many more parents reached the school and demanded strict action against the principal. Some have alleged that their children as well have been touched inappropriately by the same school supervisor. 'My kid's thigh was touched when she would go to the washroom by the accused in spite of an aaya being present,' is what one parent told India Today. Others came out with more damning experiences their kids recounted to them.Such being the case, they wanted a case of criminal negligence be filed against the principal. But with the school authorities resorting to delaying tactics, they began to protest in the school premises till the police arrived on the spot and brought the situation under control. The principal was finally detained by the police and that was when she changed track saying she was always with the parents.Major Aditi (Retd), a child and human rights activist in the city assisted the parents in making sure that the police stopped wasting time. Speaking to India Today Aditi said, "I want to know whether the principal was competent enough to run the school in the first place and why the most basic measures were not being followed. We have spoken about measures to be put in place so why was the little girl not escorted by an aaya to the washroom, what was the male supervisor doing there."As of now, the school has been shut until further notice and the parents want a full-fledged investigation to take place.WATCH: Another Bengaluru horror: Woman groped, molested by bike-borne men in dark alley