Stop endorsing donkeys of Gujarat: Akhilesh Yadav to Amitabh.
Samajwadi Party chief and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav today launched a fierce attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of fourth phase voting for Assembly elections. Addressing a rally in Raebareli, Akhilesh criticised Modi over Gujarat Tourism advertisement which showcases superstar Amitabh Bachchan.ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS 2017: FULL COVERAGE"Ek gadhe ka vigyapan aata hai, main iss sadi ke sabse bade mahanayak se kahunga ke ab aap Gujarat ke gadhon ka prachar mat kariye (There's an ad on TV which shows donkeys. I appeal to century's biggest star...please stop endorsing donkeys of Gujarat)," Akhilesh said referring to one Gujarat Tourism TV advertisement which features Amitabh Bachchan.The ad shows Amitabh inviting tourists to visit the Wild Ass Sanctuary located in Little Rann of Kutch in Gujarat. ALSO READ: Akhilesh Yadav in Raibareli: Modi must speak truth, SP provides 24-hour power to VaranasiThe statement came a day after PM Modi stirred a massive controversy by drawing a parallel between Hindu and Muslim festivals. "Gaon me kabristan banta hai to shamshaan bhi banna chahiye. Ramzan me bijli aati hai to Diwali me bhi aani chahiye. Bhedbhav nhi hona chahiye (If land is given for cemetery in a village, it should be given for cremation ground also. If electricity is supplied during Ramazan, it should be supplied during Diwali also. There should not be discrimination," Modi said addressing an election rally in Fatehpur.The Opposition lashed out at PM Modi's statement which they termed 'communal'. The Congress said it will be filing a complaint with the Election Commission against Prime Minister Narendra Modi."Such statements are totally unwarranted and the PM is trying to communalise the atmosphere for political gains. He is bringing disrepute to his post as well," party secretary of legal and human rights cell K C Mittal told India Today.WATCH: Akhilesh dares Modi to ban meat exports after Amit Shah vows to close slaughterhouses