Akshay, Hrithik to feature together in film: Reports.
The two-hero film has virtually vanished from Bollywood. Up till 2000s, films with multiple heroes were, well, a norm. Not an exception. Amitabh Bachchan-Shashi Kapoor, Amitabh Bachchan-Rishi Kapoor, Akshay Kumar-Suniel Shetty, Sanjay Dutt-Govinda, among others, are some of the most well-known pairs of heroes that have consistently produced great entertainers.Today, it will be difficult to get Ranbir Kapoor, Ranveer Singh, Shahid Kapoor, etc to star together in a film. Films like Rangoon (Shahid-Saif), Padmavati (Shahid-Ranveer) and Gunday (Ranveer-Arjun) are some recent exceptions.But till now, we have not seen two big contemporary stars at the prime of their careers, coming together to do a film. Well that might change soon with Hrithik Roshan and Akshay Kumar apparently coming together to star in a film.MOVIE REVIEW: JOLLY LLB 2MOVIE REVIEW: KAABILA source, quoted by DNA, said, "They have found a great script which is perfect and they (Hrithik and Akshay) both have lead roles."Akshay Kumar and Hrithik Roshan share a good rapport and frequently complement each other's work on social media. Expecting to see them together in a project is not that difficult.When asked about doing a two-hero film, Akshay Kumar said, "I am open to doing a two-hero film. In fact, I have been approached for one and I am considering it.""About ego clashes and insecurities on set, the Jolly LLB 2 actor added, "Why should I care about all that If there are more actors, I will have to do less work to do in the film, so it's good for me in a way."Hrithik Roshan, too, is apparently interested in a two-hero project. 'I am open to the idea. I would love to do a film with another actor friend. In fact, I have had a word with some of my colleagues in the industry. We were discussing and planning to do a two-hero film. So let's see what happens. It's only about finding the right script that does justice to both actors," said the Kaabil actor.Well, if this eventually materialises, expect all box-office records to be broken for sure.