 Female labourer who turned arms supplier arrested in Delhi.
Delhi Police special cell on Saturday arrested a woman in connection with an arms trafficking racket and recovered 14 semi-automatic sophisticated pistols of 7.65mm with 14 magazines from her possession.Mobai (45), police said, is a proclaimed offender with many cases of arms act registered against her. The recovered weapons are engraved with ?Made in England? and ?Made in USA? markings.A mother of five children, she earlier worked as a labourer in the fields but her income was not sufficient to meet her basic needs. Being unable to make her ends meet, she came in contact with arms traffickers in MP and started supplying illegal arms. ?It had come to notice that arms manufacturers and suppliers from MP are supplying sophisticated firearms in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas of UP. A team was deputed to identify the gang in Delhi. The team deployed informers in and around Delhi-NCR, MP and UP to gather leads about the gang and the racket,? DCP special cell, PS Kushwah said.Police recovered 14 semi-automatic sophisticated pistols of 7.65mm with 14 magazines from Mobai?s possession.?Last Wednesday, we received an information that one woman supplier of illegal arms, who is also a proclaimed offender, would come near Shastri Park, between 6pm and 7pm to deliver a huge cache of semi-automatic weapons and meet her contacts,? Kushwah said. A trap was laid and the woman was spotted. ?She was carrying a black and a red bag on her right shoulder. She started waiting there for someone. After some time when no one turned up and as she was about to leave, she was apprehended with the help of woman staff,? Kushwah said.Mobai told police that she collected the weapons from a manufacturer in Gandhwani, MP, and supplied them to contacts in Delhi and Western UP. During interrogation, she said she had supplied weapons in Delhi-NCR and UP West to different persons on many occasions in the last 15 years, police said.?She was found involved in cases of arms supply. Her other involvements are being verified,? Kushwah said.