I won't sledge Virat Kohli: Australia's Glenn Maxwell.
Australia allrounder Glenn Maxwell has said he would not risk provoking India captain Virat Kohli in the upcoming four-Test series starting February 23 in Pune.Maxwell, who is a friend of Kohli off the field, said he would not say anything to Kohli that would rile him up. (R Ashwin will be ready for me but I have my game plan: David Warner to India Today)Kohli is in red-hot form, leading the way in all three formats. He recently became the first batsman to hammer double hundreds in four consecutive series. His first (200) came against West Indies and he then followed that up with another one (211) against New Zealand. After that, Kohli scored his career-best 235 in Mumbai against England and again slammed a 204 against Bangladesh in Hyderabad this month."I am probably not going to say anything to him, that is for sure. Virat is up and down, I suppose, with sledging. If you (strike) a chord with him, or something gets him agitated to play a big shot, then blokes are more than welcome to go for it. (Virat Kohli leading the way in all three formats: David Warner to India Today)"But at the moment, there's not much agitating him," Maxwell told cricket.com.au.Former Australia batsman Michael Hussey has already warned Steve Smith and Co. not to sledge Kohli as it would bring the best out of him.However, soon after landing in India, Australian skipper Smith said his team won't shy away from sledging and indulging in verbal battles against India. (Australia won't shy away from sledging Virat Kohli's India: Steve Smith)Maxwell agreed with his captain and said his teammates were most welcome to sledge Kohli if they feel."I think Steve Smith said it perfectly in the press conference yesterday - the guys that want to get involved verbally, if that gets the best out of them then go for it," Maxwell added.Top-ranked India are on a brilliant run, unbeaten in 19 Tests over a 16-month period with South Africa, New Zealand, England and Bangladesh all vanquished at home, while trips to Sri Lanka and West Indies also culminated in victories.By contrast, Smith's side were thrashed 3-0 in Sri Lanka and lost the first two tests of a three-match home series against South Africa before wholesale changes led to a consolation win in Adelaide and the new charges went on to sweep aside Pakistan.Maxwell feels that the India right-hander is on top of his game at the moment and the best way to get him is by shattering his confidence with a silly run-out or an unfortunate dismissal."I don't think it's anything particular as far as technique or anything like that, I just think he's so on top of his game at the moment," Maxwell said."Guys can go through a run of form like that where they just get on a roll and everything seems to click for them, and that's happened for him at the moment.""The thing with that is it can take only one bit of bad luck or an unfortunate dismissal where he's run out or something, and that can sometimes trigger a little bit of indecision or doubt.""So hopefully in the first couple of Tests we can create that doubt and get him wondering about his technique," he added.