Playstation games inspired youngsters to become carjackers.
 A gang of four alleged carjackers, who learnt how to rob cars while playing their favourite game, Grand Theft Auto, on Playstation, was on Tuesday busted by Delhi Police crime branch. This gang allegedly committed five back-to-back car robberies within 48 hours in Delhi. Two adult members, including the kingpin Lokesh Shokeen, 22, were arrested and their two alleged juvenile accomplices apprehended. They were behind a series of carjacking incidents in west, northwest and outer Delhi. The other arrested man is Deepak alias Changa, 27. Five robbed four-wheelers, including two SUVs, I-phone 6 and other items, were recovered from them.Madhur Verma, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that except one alleged juvenile carjacker, a habitual offender previously involved in similar cases, all other apprehended carjackers were first-timers. They entered  the world of crime to earn quick bucks and to live a lavish lifestyle. The gang members robbed cars and high-end mobile phones and used to thrash the occupants if they resisted. The four said while playing the Grand Theft Auto games, they hit upon the idea that they could get hold of luxury cars easily like the characters in the games by thrashing the occupants, said Verma. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Ravindra Yadav said that in the first week of February 2017, five carjackings were reported on one night. In one incident in Model Town, the carjackers robbed a Fortuner SUV after mercilessly attacking its driver with a baseball bat. The car driver sustained multiple injuries in his head. He was admitted to Sant Parmanand Hospital where he is still battling for his life, said Yadav. The gang targeted luxury cars driven by a single person. They used to target a particular car, followed it closely and at a convenient place, deliberately banged the car with their car, compelling the driver to stop. The gang members travelled in cars with tinted glasses so that they cant be seen from outside.Shokeen was the first to be arrested from Rohini Sector 16 with a robbed Fortuner. His interrogation led to the arrest of Deepak and apprehension of the two minor boys and recovery of four other cars.