Shiv Sena using Balasahebs name to hide its corruption: Raj.
MNS supremo Raj Thackeray today slammed the Shiv Sena alleging that it was using its founder Balasaheb Thackeray's pictures in its campaign to hide its corruption.Addressing his first rally in suburban Vikhroli, Raj targeted BJP over demonetisation saying that the BJP amassed all the money post note ban. Raj initially had plans of addressing 36 rallies across the state but cut down to six rallies following his son Amit Thackeray's hospitalisation.Raj who has initially extended his hand for an alliance with the Shivsena , came down heavily on the party. "They are using Balasaheb's picture in their campaign that says , I do what I say. Balasaheb proved it.. but why are you using his pictures, just to hide your corruption " asked Raj.Raj also alleged that the Shivsena wants to usurp the plush sea facing Mayor Bungalow under the name of Balasaheb memorial. "They want to usurp the Mayor's bungalow under the name of memorial. And they plan to shift the Mayor inside the Zoo premises. There are no animals left in the Zoo, so will people come and see the mayor there now" asked Raj."People were shown false dreams in the name of a new India. I wonder where the new India is. Almost 1,200 crore will be spent by candidates in Uttar Pradesh alone ! Is that money going to be spend by swiping cards  Where is the money going to come from  is this cashless India  " asked the MNS chief.RAJ'S SCATHING ATTACK ON BJP Alleging that BJP leaders have all the cash post demonetisation, Raj also took a dig at the BJP over its party with difference slogan. "BJP says it will give a transparent government. What do they mean by that You are not even letting people know what's happening. Today I came to know why the BJP calls itself as a "Party with difference " - it means BJP has all the money and the rest do not. That's the difference!" quipped Raj.Raj added that the BJP has no moral ground to allege corruption by Shiv Sena in BMC as they were ruling together in the civic body.