India witnessed maximum bombings worldwide in 2016: Report.
India witnessed the maximum bombings in the world last year, even more than war-torn Iraq and Afghanistan, according to a report. There were 406 such incidents, which include IED and ordnance explosive blasts, in the country. Iraq came second with almost half the number at 221, the report by the National Bomb Data Centre (NBDC) said, even though it did not mention the casualties. NBDC functions as the nodal post-blasts investigation department under the country's federal contingency force NSG. The report did sound a word of caution on the global data, saying the centre obtained these figures from an "open source". OTHER BLAST-AFFECTED NATIONS   Neighbouring Pakistan witnessed a total of 161 incidents during 2016 followed by Afghanistan where 132 bombings were recorded. There were 92 bombings in Turkey, 71 in Thailand, 63 in South Africa, 56 in Syria, 42 in Egypt and 29 in Bangladesh among others. "This does not reflect the exact number and details of the incident", the National Security Guards NBDC said in its annual compilation of such incidents called Bombshell. Out of a total of 406 incidents reported during this period in India, 337 were triggered using Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), while the rest 69 occurred using ordnance explosives like grenades or ammunition shells. WHICH DAYS MOST PRONE TO BLASTS The report delved deeper and analysed that the maximum of IED blasts in a week in India, at 63, occurred on Thursdays, followed by 50 on Wednesdays and so on. March proved to be the deadliest in India with a maximum of 42 incidents being recorded in this month in 2016, followed by 36 in April. "The data has been obtained from police records available from time to time. This does not reflect the exact number and details of the incident", the report added.Also read | Twin blasts rock Imphal on Republic Day, no casualties; insurgent groups boycott celebrations   The NBDC report, published last week, also reported that Jammu and Kashmir saw an over 121 per cent rise in blast and IED-related incidents after the killing of terrorist Burhan Wani in the Valley in July last year. While 14 IED bombing incidents were reported in Jammu and Kashmir in 2015, the numbers went up to 31 last year. 