Inclusion shows in every meeting, starting with me: Nadella.
From Yoshita Singh New York, Feb 12 (PTI) Microsoft has to "look like everyone and every organisation in the world" for it to accomplish its mission, the technology giants Indian-born CEO Satya Nadella has said, asserting the importance of "diversity and inclusion" amid an environment of divisiveness. An aspect "we are focussed a ton on is we say we want to empower the world, everyone and every organisation. That means we have got to look like everyone and every organisation in the world," Nadella said during an interaction with students and faculty at New York Universitys Tandon School of Engineering and the Stern School of Business last week. Asked by a student about the actions he has taken since assuming the role of Microsofts CEO to change the culture within the company, Nadella alluded to Microsofts mission to "empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more." He stressed that diversity and inclusion is critical to achieve this core mission. "Diversity and inclusion is huge. It obviously starts by having a workforce that is diverse but inclusion is a cultural piece that we all have to work on everyday," he said at the interaction during his visit to the University on February 7. He said inclusion "shows up in every meeting, starting with me." "Am I able to actually conduct a meeting where everyone is able to contribute their best because we all come with different styles, we have different cultural upbringings, what makes us tick is different. So you got to have leaders who are in-tuned with that," he said. Nadella stressed the culture of diversity and inclusion has to be developed across the company and Microsoft is striving hard to achieve it. "I will not by any stretch say at Microsoft we have excellence in it. Ill say we are going to, everyday of the week, push to get better and better at creating that more inclusive culture. It starts with each mindset," he said. "The culture is just a reflection of you and what you do in an organisation. The more you take responsibility for it, the more you feel empowered to change culture versus being stuck in some culture you dont like," he said. Nadellas comments come against the backdrop of a divisive and anti-immigrant rhetoric engulfing the US under the presidency of Donald Trump. 