Have waited patiently, will do what is required: Sasikala.
"We have waited patiently till now. Will do what is required after a point," grudged Sasikala, after hearing that one of AIADMK's sitting minister K Pandiarajan had jumped the ship. Saturday was not favourable for Sasikala as two MPs met caretaker chief minister O Panneerselvam and joined his gang. But the big blow for the day was Jayalalithaa's loyalist K Pandiarajan, who Sasikala thought would replace Thambidurai as the messenger between the State and the Centre. All this occurred before the half day mark. "Though Pandiarajan was expected to join Panneerselvam long time back, Sasikala's family members had persuaded him to stay back," stated an aide from Poes Garden. Moreover, Sasikala's camp lost a huge moral boost when Madhusudhanan, the presiding Chairman and one of the members of AIADMK from its origin went to the other side. Also Read: Panneerselvam vs Sasikala: Huge blow to Chinamma as minister Pandiarajan joins OPS campAn enraged Sasikala openly stated that the delay caused by the Governor seems deliberate and hinted that as time goes by, her grip over the herded MLAs was slipping.  But the way she framed the words to say that "will do what is required", it ended up more like a threat to the Governor who still hasn't called her to form the Government and less of a claim. Giving out this statement, Sasikala initiated an emergency trip to the resort where the MLAs are 'kept' accompanied by her remaining Generals, Sengottaiyan and Edapadi K Palanisamy. THE POWER PARADEInitially, she wished to go to Marina to pray at the Jayalalithaa Memorial before leaving to meet the MLAs. But the trip was cancelled as cadres and Sasikala followers could not turn up at the Memorial in such a short time. Jayalalithaa's 'Land Cruiser Prada'  carrying Sasikala took a different turn and left for 'Kuvathur', 83.08 km from the city to 'Golden Bay Resort', the private resort where 95 MLAs are currently herded together. Sasikala reached around 4pm and the 'meeting' began. The initial plan was to take the MLAs from the resort and to parade them in front of the Governor to prove her strength. Sasikala waited at the resort along with the MLAs patiently to acquire the Governor's appointment. "We initiated the talks about meeting the Governor but people around Sasikala are not giving her the right advice. They did the same mistake they had done with her coronation attempt. They fix everything and then inform Governor Vidhyasagar Rao doesn't act that way and she is not Jayalalitha," explained a top government official. Around 6.30pm Sengottaiyan, the most important General of AIADMK came out to inform that media is falsely stating that his name is on the card for the CM post. "Our only candidate for the post of chief minister is Chinnamma," he clarified. "We have given a letter to the Governor and we will wait till tomorrow evening," he said explaining that the Governor has refused to meet Sasikala for the day. THE BLACKOUTSources close to the MLAs alleged that AIADMK MLAs are not happy staying inside a resort as many were not prepared for such a vacation. Also, there is a blackout of media inside the resort meaning they don't know what is going on in the world, which is why many have started to panic as well.Around 7.30pm, Sasikala left Golden Bay resort holding a 'Poker face' as any leak of expression would favour the opposite camp. Reaching Poes Garden, she met the press and assured that everything is fine with the MLAs and that they are her family and that they are together. Also Read: Sasikala losing against Panneerselvam Chinnamma unhappy with MLAs, may withdraw from CM's raceWhile cross-verifying with the OPS camp, only his laughter was received as the answer since they claimed that the support for him had already crossed 50 yesterday itself. Keeping all this in mind, Sasikala expressed that, by Sunday various other ways shall be taken to persuade the Governor. Also, interestingly while Sasikala announced her plan, Chennai Police Commissioner George too released a statement. 