Rajinikanth may launch his political party: Reports.
In a potboiler of a twist to the ongoing Tamil Nadu drama, it is learnt that superstar Rajinikanth may soon launch his own political party.Sources have told India Today TV the 66-year-old star has been advised by senior RSS ideologue S Gurumurthy to float his own outfit.Sources said Gurumurthy's proposal is part of a BJP plan to enter the state riding on the massive popularity and cult status enjoyed by Rajinikanth in Tamil Nadu.The BJP plans to fish in the troubled waters of Tamil Nadu by projecting Rajinikanth as the chief ministerial face. Elections in Tamil Nadu, however, are not due in the immediate future. AMITABH SAYS NOMeanwhile, it has also been learnt that megastar Amitabh Bachchan has advised Rajinikanth not to go for active politics.Amitabh himself had a brief stint with politics in the 1980s when he contested and won from Allahabad Lok Sabha constituency in Uttar Pradesh on a Congress ticket.Amitabh and Rajinikanth have worked in a few popular Hindi films, including Hum, Giraftaar, and Andha Kanoon. WHAT KAMAL HAASAN SAID OVER TAMIL NADU POLITICAL CRISISIn an exclusive interview with India Today, Kamal Haasan backed O Panneeerselvam to take charge of CM's chair. The actor said that Panneerselvam is competent enough to lead Tamil Nadu and Sasikala, in a sense, should back off from confrontation."Time of dice playing was done with in Mahabharat. We can't be playing dice and hawking our family wives and lives, in favour of some numbers (Sasikala's MLA support). We don't trade. We are the people," said Haasan."I am not going to jump into the so-called bandwagon of Panneerselvam. The last conversation I had with him was during the jallikattu [row], where I told him he should go to the people. We'll have to realise how the state can be run," he said.WHERE IS THALA AJITH KUMAR?Actor Ajith Kumar was among the first celebrities to pay visit to Jayalalithaa when she was hospitalised. Rumours were rife that Ajith was anointed as her successor and that O Panneerselvam, who served as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu from 2001 to 2002 and again from 2014 to 2015, will guide Ajith Kumar when he takes charge as the chief minister.Unlike Ajith Kumar, Kamal Haasan has had locked horns with the AIADMK several times, be it during the release of Vishwaroopam or Chennai floods.Ajith Kumar, who has maintained a cordial relationship with Jayalalithaa and someone who has a prominent voice in Tamil Nadu can smoothen things up, only if he chose to mince words.  Watch the video here