Cook is the guy you won't mind your daughter marrying: Warne.
Shane Warne, one of Alastair Cook's harshest critics over the years, praised the former England captain saying that he is a very respectful guy with a lot of class. This comes after Cook had a tough tour of the sub-continent where he led England in a 4-0 series loss to India and a dismal display against Bangladesh. The Three Lions lost all wickets in a single session to lose the second Test match by 108 runs, allowing Bangladesh to level the series 1-1. (Also read: Alastair Cook 'drained' by England captain job, says Andrew Strauss)After returning to England and with some time in his hand, Cook decided to step down as Test captain after 59 matches in charge.The 32-year-old had taken over from Andrew Strauss and since became England's most successful captain in the traditional format. Cook led England to 24 victories but also oversaw 22 defeats during his tenure from 2010-2016. "He's been a wonderful ambassador for the game of cricket," Warne said in a Facebook Live post. (Also read: Departing England captain Alastair Cook says 'new voice' was needed)"He's one of those guys you wouldn't mind your daughter marrying, he's a wonderful guy," he added.  The legendary leg-spinner praised him for overcoming the tough times and standing tall. "He's respected and I think he's gone about it with a lot of class. He went through some really tough times a few years ago when a lot of us, me included, thought he wasn't suited to the job. (Also read: Alastair Cook steps down as England Test captain after 4-0 defeat vs India)But England backed him and he's done a great job over the last couple of years. He's respected by his teammates and the way he's conducted things on and off the field. I think he's done a wonderful job for England and I wish him all the best." Warney wished him luck and said now Cook can go on a record breaking spree. "He's got a chance to break all the records now."  "I think with that pressure off him it will allow him to make a lot of runs over the next few years," he added.