What is Chinaman bowling in cricket.
India were forced to make a change to their one-off Test squad against Bangladesh as Amit Mishra, who injured himself was replaced by Uttar Pradesh and Kolkata Knight Riders' left-arm chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav. Although he is not the first ever Indian chinaman blower as that tag belongs to Preeti Dimri, he became the first ever chinaman bowler to earn a call-up in the Indian Test team. (Also read: India vs Bangladesh one-off Test: Chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav replaces injured Amit Mishra)Not only that, he is only the second bowler in Indian cricket currently who belongs to a rare breed. The other one is Shivil Kaushik, who took people by surprise with his Paul Adams-esque "frog in a blender"  bowling action when he played for the Gujarat Lions last year in the Indian Premier League.WHAT IS CHINAMANSo what is Chinaman bowling In layman's term it's basically left-arm leg-spin - the same as right-arm leg-spin. While a leg spinner turns the ball away from the right hander, a chinaman bowler brings it back into him, which can sometimes make life difficult. As a right-handed batsman, your natural instinct is to expect the ball to turn away from you . It's also called left-arm unorthodox spin.This a rare type and is actually considered to be more dangerous because of the sharp turn it generates into a right hander or away from the left hander.VARIATIONS OF A CHINAMAN BOWLERWell, it is traditionally wrist spin. A chinaman bowler has the normal variations of a normal wrist spin bowler. The stock ball comes into the right hander and leaves a left handed batsman. If he possesses ' a 'Googly', the ball is supposed to leave the right hander and come into the left hander. WHY CHINAMANThe term is traditionally believed to have originated with the former West Indian spinner Ellis Achong. Back in 1933, England hosted West Indies in a Test match in Old Trafford. Achong, said to be a left-arm orthodox spinner or slow left-arm as it is popularly said bowled an unexpected delivery from his wrist which got a sharp turn after pitching outside off and got the English batsman Walter Robins stumped. Achong was the first Test cricketer of Chinese origin and it is believed that a perplexed and angry Robins commented while walking towards the pavilion -  "Fancy being done by a bloody Chinaman."From then, left-arm wrist spinners have been referred to as chinaman bowlers.HISTORY OF CHINAMAN BOWLINGWell, this is a rare breed all together. So much so that there have been only around 30 of them in international cricket. Out of these only 16 - Achong,  Chuck Fleetwood-Smith,  George Tribe,  Johnny Wardle, Garfield Sobers,  Lindsay Kline,  Johnny Martin,  David Sincock, Inshan Ali, Bernard Julien, Paul Adams, Brad Hogg, Beau Casson, Dave Mohammed, Michael Rippon and Lakshan Sandakan are the ones who made the teams solely due to their bowling.Now one might wonder that what is the legendary Garry Sobers doing in the list He was a left-arm fast bowler - well, he used to turn his wrist once in a while as well, to add one more dimension to his game. Even Achong, Tribe, Wardle and Martin were not specialised chinaman bowlers as they used to bowl finger spin as well.WHO MADE IT BIGNot many have mastered the art really. But two people who really made it big are Australia's Hogg and South Africa's Adams.Hogg was always under the shadow of Shane Warne but whenever he got a chance, he performed admirably and slowly became an integral part of two World Cup-winning squads in 2003 and 2007. He has played 123 one-day internationals and picked up 156 wickets. He has also represented the Aussies in seven Tests and 15 T20Is picking up 17 and seven wickets in the process.However, Hoggy has enjoyed a renaissance of sorts since T20 leagues around the world started. The 45-year-old has enjoyed tremendous success in the Big Bash League and the IPL to be specific and is still going strong.Adams on the other hand has played 45 Tests and picked up 134 wickets for South Africa. He also played 24 ODIs, picking up 29 wickets in them.