India building secret nuclear city, claims Pakistan.
Pakistan today claimed that India is building a "secret nuclear city" and has accumulated a stockpile of nuclear weapons which threatens to undermine the strategic balance of power in the region. Foreign Office (FO) spokesman Nafees Zakaria made the remarks at the weekly press briefing while expressing concern over the "Indian defence buildup". "India is building a secret nuclear city..It has accumulated a stockpile of nuclear weapons which threatens to undermine the strategic balance of power in the region," he claimed. MUST READ: Pakistan's new nuke threat: Why India has to worryZakaria also alleged that India has been conducting tests on inter-continental missiles which would "disturb the strategic balance in the region."'INDIA'S MISSILE MISSION DISTURBING STRATEGIC BALANCE' He asked the international community to take note of "Indian drive" to have more deadly weapons and check "rapid expansion" of its conventional and non-conventional weapons. Asserting that India had been "exposed" by the failure of its efforts to isolate Pakistan, he said the Indian government should reciprocate the steps taken by Pakistan for peace. "Pakistan remains committed to the principles of peaceful existence with all of its neighbours, including India," he said, adding that Islamabad was open for dialogue and took a number of initiatives but India failed to respond positively. "Instead of resolving the issues amicably through dialogue, India has adopted a hostile attitude," he alleged. He accused India of repeatedly violating the ceasefire agreement at the LoC and providing funds to militants to carry out terror activities in Pakistan. "Indian belligerence continues to pose threat to the peace in the region, which the international community should take note of," he said. INDIA RUBBISHES CLAIMS Rubbishing Islamabad's claims, New Delhi said such remarks were an attempt by the neighbouring nation to divert attention from real issue of terrorism."Pakistan's claims of India's secret nuclear city is baseless. This aims to deflect attention from real issue of terrorism," Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Vikas Swarup  told reporters in New Delhi.WATCH: Pakistan defence minister threatens India, says "we'll use special bombs"