Ticketless passenger stabs ticket examiner on train in Delhi.
A train ticket examiner (TTE) was allegedly stabbed by three unidentified men who were asked to deboard the train as they were travelling without tickets in the reserved compartment. The incident took place on a train that was moving from the New Delhi railway station late Sunday night.The injured TTE was rushed to a private hospital in Ghaziabad after the government railway police (GRP) stopped the train at Ghaziabad junction.Diwakar Boro, the TTE who is based in Guwahati, was examining tickets onboard the Poorvottar Sampark Kranti Express, which had left the New Delhi railway station around 11.45pm for Guwahati on Sunday. The victim was allegedly stabbed by one of the three young men, who then jumped out of the moving train.I asked the three men to deboard the train as they did not have tickets. They had boarded a reserved coach of the train. Instead, they asked me not to bother and also hurled abuses when I tried to be stern in asking them to deboard. They looked like locals and were aged 18-22 years. However, one of them hit me with a sharp-edged weapon, Boro said.Initially, I did not realise that I was injured. But when I saw blood, I realised that it was a deep cut on my arm. Other passengers later pulled the chain and informed a guard. The guard alerted the authorities and the train was stopped at Ghaziabad. The GRP officials and doctors were ready with an ambulance and I was rushed to the hospital, he said.The GRP officials at Ghaziabad said that the victim suffered injuries on his arms.We asked him to lodge a complaint but he said that as the incident took place in New Delhi, he will lodge a complaint there. We are taking proper care and have also informed our Delhi counterparts, said Randhir Singh, circle officer (GRP), Ghaziabad.The victim said that officers from GRP and the railway protection force of New Delhi came to Ghaziabad and registered his complaint.This is the second case of violence in moving train in the recent past. In a previous incident, on the night of July 26, 13 passengers of Farakka Express were allegedly robbed by five armed robbers when the train had stopped for a brief period near Seelampur in Delhi. The train was also stopped at Ghaziabad and the GRP registered the initial complaint from the passengers.