Panneerselvam claims support of 50 MLAs.
Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK is locked in an ugly war within as acting Chief Minister O Panneerselvam has vowed to stay put in office while party General Secretary VK Sasikala Natarajan accused him of trying to split the party with the opposition DMK's backing.A night after Panneerselvam revolted against Sasikala, who had been elected the AIADMK legislature wing leader, the long-time confidante of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa accused Panneerselvam of "betrayal" after he refused to back her plans to head the government.On his part, Panneerselvam announced that a Supreme Court judge will head a Commission of Inquiry to probe the December 5 demise of Jayalalithaa. He said there were many questions over the death.Both camps claim majority support among the AIADMK's 134 legislators in Tamil Nadu, with reports saying most of them have been bussed away to a hotel near the Chennai airport. Tamil Nadu Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao is expected to play a key role in resolving the crisis -- or recommend President's Rule in the state. Here are the LIVE updates: Tamil Nadu: Sasikala supporters outside Poes Garden in Chennai. pic.twitter.com/CC93kCxwroI continued with my post only after union govt asked me to do so after resignation: #OPanneerselvampic.twitter.com/bebSQ8mNbETN: #SasikalaNatarajan reached party headquarters in Chennai for #AIADMK MLAs meeting. pic.twitter.com/P56JnRKzi3#SasikalaNatarajan leaves #PoesGarden residence in Chennai for #AIADMK MLAs meet at party headquarter. pic.twitter.com/irIETlX8mgTamil Nadu Political crisis: #OPanneerselvam at his residence in Chennai, says will prove my strength in the assembly. pic.twitter.com/7LNCWXSWDrI will meet the Governor once he is back here: #OPanneerselvam in Chennai pic.twitter.com/0i3PLwSYHU#SasikalaNatarajan should be sworn-in as CM;If delayed itâ??ll be violence against Constitution;President must intervene-Subramanian Swamy,BJP pic.twitter.com/gbOlDA84y3How can we support #OPanneerselvam when he's in oppo?We're major party,want to come back to power,expose AIADMK's wrongdoings: TKS Elangovan pic.twitter.com/t9rzzDOhhaVisuals from #jayalalithaa's memorial at Chennai's Marina Beach pic.twitter.com/mzjqbjzwB9PANNEERSELVAM REVOLTS Immediately after being sacked from the post of AIADMK treasurer by party General Secretary VK Sasikala, Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said that no one had the right to do so and dismissed claims that DMK influenced his move. He said his next course of action would "reflect" the "aspirations" of AIADMK cadres and people of Tamil Nadu. WATCH | No one in Tamil Nadu has the right to take away my treasurer post: O Panneerselvam on his expulsion"No one has the right to remove me from the post of treasurer which was given to me by Amma 10 years ago," he told reporters.Asked if the AIADMK chief had charged him with association with DMK as she could not find any other allegation, he quoted a Tamil proverb, the meaning of which is "I have nothing and no one to fear as I have done no wrong." Panneerselvam also said "I am a grassroot-level ordinary party worker." Asked if he would launch a new party and if he would call on Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, he said "please wait and see."Also read: