CBFC to reissue certificate to Jolly LLB 2 after HC order.
The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has ordered the deletion of four scenes in Akshay Kumar and Huma Qureshi's upcoming film Jolly LLB 2 - a scene where a scared judge is hiding behind the chair, another where a shoe is hurled, a scene with objectionable signalling and dialogues in an argument scene have to be modified.ALSO READ | Akshay Kumar in Jolly LLB 2: Is this Arshad Warsi's revenge?The Central Board of Film Certification had already cleared Jolly LLB 2, but will have to reissue the certificate in light of the court order. The Akshay Kumar-starrer got caught up in controversy when Nanded-based advocate Ajaykumar Waghmare filed a petition, saying that the film is "nothing but an attempt to portray the Indian Legal Profession and Judicial System as a laughing stock to the society at large."The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court today ordered the makers of film Jolly LLB 2 to delete four scenes from the film after the committee that it had formed to view the film objected to a few scenes in the film. The committee comprising two senior lawyers from Aurangabad and a doctor said that the film does show the lawyers and judges in bad light. The filmmakers agreed to go ahead with the deletion of scenes and dialogues to which the committee had objected. The division bench of Justice SS Shinde and Justice KK Sonawane then disposed off the petition. With this, the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) will have to reissue a certificate after the deletion of scenes, so that the film can be released on its scheduled date, February 10.WHAT THE COMMITTEE REPORT SAYSThe report was submitted on February 5 by the committee. The report says, "After the entire film was viewed by us, we found following scenes which according to us is objectionable.1. The screen shot that depicts the male protagonist approaching the dias and returning from the dias after dialogue with the learned judge and immediately thereafter the male protagonist signalling to his client as a result of which the client commits further act of throwing the shoe at the judge. (sic)2. Subsequently in the dialogue between two lawyers, namely the male protagonist and his male colleague where it is said that, "Kya akkal lagaai hai," indicates that this act was pre-planned and lawyer signalling to commit the act according to us is defamatory to the lawyers' profession and would be contempt of court. (sic)According to us, the said visuals or words involves defamation of body of lawyers as the said scene according to us tend to disgrace or undermine the dignity of lawyers and courts, in view of the section 5B of the cinematography act 1956 and guideline 2 (18) for certification of films of exhibition.WHAT THE FILMMAKERS SAYJolly LLB 2 director Subhash Kapoor today gave an undertaking in the Bombay High Court that they would delete four scenes as found objectionable by the committee appointed by the court. The two-page statement said, "In view of the imminent release of the film Jolly LLB 2 and steps undertaken in relation thereto, we offer the following statement without prejudice to the objections raised by the film producers on 30th January with regards to the jurisdiction, constitution and appointment of a committee particularly when the film has been duly certified by the statutory authority that is the CBFC." The director also said, "Without admitting and whilst denying the petitioners' case and contents of the committee's report dated February 5 on the basis that only the four objections noted in the amicus curiae report dated February 5 will be considered by the honorable court."WHAT IS BEING ALTEREDDias SceneThe jumping on and off the dias will be removed; however, the dialogue conversation between the protagonist and the judge will be retained.SignallingThis will be deletedShoe sceneThe modified scene will now depict the disgruntled litigant venting his frustration. However, the same shall not be shown as being thrown directly on the judge and / or landing on the judge's table.Dialogue"Kya akal lagaai hai": Such a dialogue does not and will not form part of the filmThe issue as to whether the decision of the CBFC to certify a film can be subjected to review / scrutiny by a court appointed committee is expressly kept open. The order dated 30th January 2017 and the order dated 6th February 2017 shall not be treated as precedent. (sic) 