Pietersen tweets "BringBackKP" after Cook's resignation.
Former England batsman and captain Kevin Pietersen known for his flamboyant style on and off the field responded to Alastair Cook's resignation in a humorous way by tweeting - #BringBackKPCook stepped down as England's Test captain after 59 matches in charge. The 32-year-old had taken over from Andrew Strauss and since became England's most successful captain in the traditional format. (Also read: Alastair Cook steps down as England Test captain after 4-0 defeat vs India)He led England to 24 victories but also oversaw 22 defeats during his tenure from 2010-2016. In all likelihood, Joe Root is like to take over as Test captain.A change in leadership was imminent after England went down 4-0 to India in the five-Test series.Pietersen, who last played a Test against Australia in Sydney back in January 2014 has always been vocal about making a comeback for England in international cricket. The mercurial batsman quit limited-overs cricket in 2012 saying he wants to let the younger generation come through but he stressed on the fact that he will keep on playing Test cricket. However, after a decent start to the South Africa tour the same year, he fell apart with then captain Andrew Strauss and coach Andy Flower. Following that he was dropped from the Test squad.He made a comeback in 2013 against New Zealand. However, a knee injury forced him to miss the return series in May. After that Pietersen played the 2013-14 Ashes, where England were whitewashed. He finished with 294 runs but he again fell out with the coach and team management and was dropped again. Since then KP has not represented England in any of the formats.He has been playing T20 Leagues around the world and has been working hard in county cricket for Surrey, still harbouring a dream return to international cricket. He has performed decently in his last outing where he represented Melbourne Stars in the Big Bash League in Australia and scored 268 runs from eight games.