I like to get customised gifts on my birthday, says Taapsee.
Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu isn?t a heavy-on-party kind of person. Maybe that?s why, the actor, who turns 30 today, has taken a day off to be in Delhi with her family.?I?ve never liked high-octane parties for my birthdays. Usually, it?s [celebration] with friends or family, depending upon where I am. But one thing that stays constant is that it has to be a holiday. I don?t usually have working birthdays. I try to take that one day off and even if I am shooting abroad, I make sure to get that one day off. I just want to not do anything... just sit back and see what has happened in the past one year and probably look forward to setting some new goals for the next year,? says Taapsee, who just wrapped up the last shooting schedule for her upcoming film Judwaa 2, co-starring Varun Dhawan and Jacqueline Fernandez.?I have been on a pre-birthday vacation this year. It?s one of my favourite days of the year and that entire schedule was on the beach and everyone was on party mode. I had the most beautiful bringing in of my birthday with that Mauritius schedule,? says Taapsee.    Annnnndddddd it's a wrap on Project Number 22 #Judwaa2 Such a perfect schedule to end it with. See u in theatres on 29th September 2017 ? A post shared by Taapsee Pannu (@taapsee) on Jul 28, 2017 at 5:13pm PDT Asked about the most cherished birthday gift she has ever got, Tapsee says that she doesn?t like typical off-the-shelf gifts. ?I don?t really enjoy these things, as I can buy them myself. So it has to be something customised for me. Every year, I like that pressure that my friends and family have to bring their creative side out and think of a gift,? says Taapsee, adding that her mom gets really frustrated, running out of creative ideas for what more to gift her daughter.?Once, she just got a new photo album and put together selected pictures from my childhood till that birthday and gave it to me. [Also] my sister once made a really funny poem with pictures of both of us on a chart paper and gifted that to me. So this is how crazy I want my birthday gifts to be,? shares the actor.Going down memory lane, Taapsee recalls how birthdays used to be most special during her childhood. ?I would look forward to wearing that special birthday dress to school, and rack my brain thinking what special [item] I could distribute as return gift to my classmates. It would be special because you are the most important person [that day] and all your friends want to be around you all the time,? she quips.Follow @htshowbiz for more