Bhopal man murders live-in partner, buries body in concrete.
In a shocking incident in Bhopal a 32-year-old man strangulated his live in partner, put her into a wooden box, converted the wooden box into a cement slab by pouring several bags of cement concrete and water into and slept on it every night for almost two months before police drilled out the body that was burred in concrete at a home in the city's Saket Nagar suburb and arrested the accused late Thursday night.The youth Udyan Das led a lavish lifestyle in Bhopal, he moved around in a Mercedes car and lived alone in his house the BHEL township in the Saket Nagar area.According to the police Udyan Das first met the victim who has been identified as 28-year-old woman Akanksha Sharma on Facebook about two years ago. "Akanksha left her home in Bankura in West Bengal telling her parents she was moving to the United States about two years back. But instead of moving to the US she came to Bhopal and started living with Udyan Das," Police said.Also read: MP Police launches mobile app MP e-Cop for women safety Family and friends of Akanksha claim they used to receive telephone calls from her till about two months back and when the calls stopped her father got suspicious and registered a missing persons complaint with the Bankura policeThe Bankura police traced the calls to Bhopal and questioned Udyan Das on Thursday. Das initially tried to mislead the police but after grilling confessed he had killed her.On being questioned where he had disposed off the body, Udyan revealed he had put the body in a wooden box and put cement and concrete along with water into the box to convert it into a slab. After the slab dried he converted it into his bed on the first floor of his house and used to sleep on it.On late Thursday night police drilled the cement slab for three hours and extracted body parts of the dead girl from it.  Also read: MP to hold survey to monitor crimes due to liquor addictionAccording to neighbours and tenants who live on the ground floor of the house they had seen the girl come into the house several times. The last time she was seen was around two months back. "Though we knew him for the past 25 odd years he hardly used to interact with anyone. He used to lead a lavish lifestyle and claim that he had a factory in Raipur. We thought  since was the only child of his parents he must be getting money from them," a neighbour told.Das initially told the police that he was an Ex-IITan and had worked in the US in the past. He also claimed that he had got married with Akanksha in a temple and that the two had together travelled to the US where his mother lived. His father retired from the Bharat Heavy Electricals and passed away a  few years back.