Hope Federer can defy logic to lift Aus Open title: Ganguly.
Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal will take to the Rod Laver Arena to reprise one of the great sporting rivalries of the modern age on Sunday, a fitting climax to an Australian Open which has sent tennis back to the future.As Federer and Nadal will meet in a grand slam final for the first time in more than five years, tennis fans couldn't help but look ahead. (Nadal vs Federer: Dream final becomes reality in Australia)Ahead of the dream final at Melbourne Park on Sunday, former India captain and a self-confessed tennis fan, Sourav Ganguly, said he was backing the Swiss veteran against Nadal. (Serena Williams overcomes sister Venus to win record 23rd Grand Slam)"I am very happy to see Roger Federer in the finals again. I saw him at the Wimbledon final where Nadal just smashed him. You could see the difference in a not-so-young Federer and a terrific Nadal," Ganguly told India Today. "But this time Nadal is also making a comeback after injuries and layoffs and Federer has been in top-notch form in this competition. I don't know if Nadal is still a bit too quick for Federer but I am backing Federer because what he has achieved in tennis is unbelievable," he added. At 35, Federer is the oldest men's grand slam finalist since Ken Rosewall lost the US Open final in 1974 at the age of 39.(WATCH VIDEO HERE) Nadal might be five years younger but has been on tour since his late teens and the effort required for his attritional playing style puts tremendous strain on his body.The Spaniard has dominated Federer in their head-to-head match-ups - he has a 23-11 record overall and has won nine of their 11 matches in Grand Slams. Ganguly, however, remained confident about Federer's chances of lifting his fifth Australian Open title, while adding that age was just a number."Nadal is a lot younger, lot faster but let's see whether the old man can defy the logic, which I firmly believe that age is just a number, and win another Australian Open," he said.Meanwhile, another big match in the offing on "Super Sunday" is the second T20I between India and England at Nagpur where Virat Kohli and Co. will aim to avoid a series defeat after losing the first match at Kanpur. (2nd T20I: India eye improved performance to avoid series defeat against England)Facing the prospect of a series defeat at home for the first time in 15 months, Kohli will have a relook at his team combination in the do-or-die match.The last time that India lost a series was 2-3 against South Africa in October 2015. After receiving seven-wicket drubbing at Kanpur, the hosts' first aim will be to keep the series alive.Kohli, who is yet to lose a series at home as captain in all formats, will need to go back to the drawing board to figure out the right balance.However, Ganguly said Kohli was more likely to stick to the same playing XI tomorrow. (I did not open the batting to look special: Virat Kohli)