Stand by triple talaq like Tamils did for Jallikattu: Owaisi.
All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi has urged Muslims to stand up in support of triple talaq, saying people of the community should draw inspiration from the way the Tamils fought against the ban on hugely popular bull-taming sport jallikattu. Owaisi said that like the Tamils, Muslims also have their own culture and they should derive inspiration from the Tamil protests which he said made even Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bow down. Owaisi added that nobody should interfere with their customs of marriage and triple talaq."In Tamil Nadu, people protested in lakhs to fight for their tradition. Modi had to bow in front of them. Are we any less than them We also have our own culture. We will marry and divorce the way we want to. Nobody should direct us what we should do," Owaisi said. Owaisi's statement has come at a time when the Supreme Court is looking into the constitutional validity of triple talaq after several women's groups challenged the practice.WHY THE CONTROVERSYWhile the Allahabad High Court termed triple talaq unconstitutional in December, 2016, the Supreme Court is separately hearing another plea filed by Saira Bano who has challenged the three rules related to Niqah (wedding). These rules are: Talaq-e-Bidat, Niqah Halala and a man's right to have four wives.TALAQ-E-BIDATTalaq-e-Bidat is the practice which gives a man the right to divorce to his wife by uttering 'talaq' three times without waiting for her consent on the matter.In the Islamic tradition, some conditions were imposed for Talaq-e-Bidat. A man can divorce his wife by uttering 'talaq' three times during the period of a Tuhar, that is, the time period of two menstruation cycles.This could be done in one sitting or spread over the specified period. Under Talaq-e-Bidat, the wife's consent is not required for the separation.NIQAH HALALAThere have been instances where men have uttered 'talaq' three times in an inebriated state or in a fit of rage and have later wanted to revert to normal married life. However, the practice of Niqah Halala prevents the reversal of the triple talaq.According to the practice of Niqah Halala, a man is not allowed to marry the same woman after divorce even if both the partners are willing. Such a niqah is considered haraam (illegal).Niqah Halala requires that the divorced woman marry some other man and after obtaining divorce from her second husband, she can remarry her first husband the second time.WATCH: Owaisi urges Muslims to fight for triple talaq the way Tamils fought for jallikattu