If Aussies sledge, we have our own plans as well: Pujara.
India's star Test batsman Cheteshwar Pujara has made it a point to score big on every given opportunity. After leading Rest of India to Irani Cup success with an unbeaten 116, Pujara said, "it was a perfect practice match for the next half of the 13 Test-match season in India."Speaking exclusively to India Today, Pujara talked about winning his favourite No.3 batting spot back and sledging the Australians during their four-match Test series in February and March. Excerpts.Q. Cheteshwar, it must feel good to go in with runs under your belt as you approach the five Test matches ahead, one against Bangladesh and four vs Australia.A. Yes. It was a very good practice match for me, the Irani trophy. It was an ideal match to play well and contribute for team's success. My partnership with (Wriddhiman) Saha was crucial. It was a very good platform to prepare for five Tests coming up against Bangladesh and Australia. (Smith wants Warner to score big like Karun Nair)Q. There's one advantage of playing just a format internationally which you do currently. That you can prepare this way for the season unlike a lot of your team mates who are in the middle of an intense limited overs series.A. That's right. When you play a first-class game and score a hundred it gives you a lot of confidence. Your concentration comes back, your rhythm comes back. You start moving your feet which is really important in the longer format of the game in particular. (Saha vs Parthiv Patel: India's wicketkeeping dilemma)Q. The challenge for you before the start of the long home season season was to reinforce your Test credentials, cement your batting position. You have reclaimed that No.3 spot now.A. I have been batting well. Especially at No.3. I wouldn't say it's my spot but this is where I have scored all my runs. That's where I have succeeded in domestic cricket and now internationally. So very happy to play at No.3. As a team also we have played some really good cricket in 2016. We want to maintain that. Q. The other debate at the start of the season was around your strike rate. How much hard work did it take to address that How much support did you get from the team managementA. Anil bhai has been good. He knows what is the commitment and discipline required at Test level. He and Virat (Kohli) both have been motivating. Anil bhai asked me to keep positive intent. I think if I am positive, the bowler has to try to do something different. That's helped. So I have improved in strike rate. But it's not something I have to worry too much about as long as I am scoring and we are winning.Q. Your thoughts on the next Test against Bangladesh. A team not too foreign to Indian conditions.A. Bangladesh are a good team. They do well in Asia. So we can't take them lightly. But at the same time our bowlers have been bowling very well. Our fast bowlers, our spinners and our lower-middle order contributions. If we continue playing the same way we should be able to beat them.Q. Australia will come next after Bangladesh. Their Test cricket is going through a bit of a slump. India will fancy their chancesA. You can't underestimate Australia. They play well at home and we do have an advantage here. But they always come up with some plan. So we will have the counter those.Q. And they are not the only ones that sledge anymore. Perhaps some of you would want to remind them what happened the last time they came to India.A. Yes it will be challenging for Australia in India. If they sledge..I remember we had a plan to sledge them when we last went to Australia. It will be tough for them when they come here.Q. Who will be the sledging leader in the side