SC asks BCCI, Centre to propose names of BCCI administrators.
The Supreme Court has held back an order to name the interim committee to oversee the daily operations of the Board of Control for Cricket in India. The apex court also allowed the BCCI and Center to suggest names for the committee.BCCI and the Center will submit their suggestions by January 27 and the Supreme Court will pass the order on January 30. The Supreme Court also asserted that people over 70 years will not be appointed BCCI administrators. The Center was represented by Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi who contended that the Supreme Court should hold back the order as the government was mulling over a legislation to regulate sports bodies in India. However, the Supreme Court asked the Center why it had not made a representation so far.WATCH FULL VIDEO HEREOn January 20 hearing, two lawyers had proposed a list of names for the interim committee to the Supreme Court in a sealed envelope. But some of the names suggested were aged over 70 and the top court had immediately raised questions. In a landmark verdict, the Supreme Court had cracked the whip on a defiant BCCI on January 2 for not complying with its orders to implement the Lodha Committee reforms. The apex court sacked its president Anurag Thakur and secretary Ajay Shirke in a historic judgement passed in the new year. For the time being, BCCI CEO Rahul Johri has been heading the board.The Supreme Court also said BCCI office bearers over 70 years or whose office period has extended for over nine years or those who have a criminal conviction should be removed.THE BACKGROUNDIt all started when the spot-fixing scandal broke out during the Indian Premier League in 2013 leading to developments that forced the top court to intervene.Subsequently, the Mudgal Committee was appointed by the Supreme Court, which submitted its report and pointed out irregularities pertaining to the IPL. To help things move further, the Supreme Court appointed a panel in January 2015 headed by former Chief Justice of India, RM Lodha. In July, the panel suspended IPL franchises Chennai Super Kings (CSK) and Rajasthan Royals (RR) for two years, while the teams' co-owners Gurunath Meiyappan and Raj Kundra were banned for life from cricket.