There cannot be any bad blood between SRK and me: Hrithik.
Hrithik Roshan has been on a promotional spree since December. And rightly so for the stakes, to quote Donald Trump, are "yuuuge". Kaabil, his sole release of 2017, takes on Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Raees at the box office on January 25. Putting behind the underwhelming response to Mohenjo Daro and the unending war of words with Kangana Ranaut in 2016, Roshan is calm, more sure as he speaks to India Today about his action drama. He calls Kaabil a "small film with a large heart". Still "there are three major action sequences, a dance number, big sets," he adds. ALSO READ: SRK responds to Rakesh Roshan's angry rant over Raees-Kaabil date clashALSO READ: Raees-Kaabil to clash on Jan 25. Rakesh Roshan makes box office prediction Kaabil and Raees will be battling for audience's attention. Do you think it hurts the films, and more so your relationship with Shah Rukh Khan?There is a commercial side and a personal side. Commercially it is going to be detrimental to both films. I guess once you make peace with that you just see what happens. I feel even in times when friends have to stand opposite each other, as long as there is communication there is understanding. If there is understanding, then you can still compete and come out with an even better relationship. There cannot be any bad blood between Shah Rukh and me.This is your sixth collaboration with your father. Tell us about working with him.  We are in a lot of ways diametrically opposite individuals but aligned towards the same objective. It's a given that the attempt is always (to achieve) a super hit. It is not easy which makes it fun. We agree that the film needs to have an emotional impact but the way to do (it) is where we will differ.  Which is why there is a lot of hits and moulding. What we (finally) achieve is a balance of his and my world.So how do you differ?I would want the teardrop to fall. He won't wait for the cloud passing the setting sun. He will not care. (He'd be) I'm sacrificing the pace of the film. Whereas I'm greedy. [His take is] the objective of the scene has been achieved. Why do you want to look at the leaf falling and the wind blowing? This is the second time that a home production starring you is not directed by your father.   I'm so happy and surprised how three people (Hrithik, Rakesh Roshan and Sanjay Gupta), who are equally headstrong, were working in complete unison. There has never been a situation in the 60 days we shot the film (where we have disagreed). How did you prepare for the part of a visually-impaired man?Somehow it came quite naturally to me. I did rehearse and practise a lot. I had a blindfold on and learned the geography of my entire house. I learned instincts of how to anticipate if you are walking into a ditch or a wall. The reactions when you touch something that you didn't expect to be there. But that's my job. It is not something to boast about. I saw a lot of videos (of visually-impaired people). There was a blind person who came to meet me. He came alone. He had my home address on the phone and found it using the talkback feature. He had lunch with me. He did not spill the food. He was eating and laughing and cracking jokes. He came without a stick. That is when the entire stance of my character changed. I was going to play him as a handicapped person who is projecting a certain kind of neediness or helplessness so that he creates empathy and sympathy for him. That was the initial idea. I just scrapped it and played it exactly as who I am without any weight given to the fact that he is blind. You don't seem to be in a rush to have a film release a year.I actually have only done movies that I have wanted to do. If there were more films that I wanted to do, then I would have done them. What you tend to do is see it in perspective - he is being choosy or likes to do it at his own pace. Perhaps, I am looking for something that is a little rarer or I want to use my films to express my own self through my interpretations of my experiences. To find that is rare.  