Pakistan's spy agency ISI funding Jallikattu violence: Swamy.
For the last six days, protest against a Supreme Court ban on hugely popular bull-taming sport-jallikattu at Chennai's Marina Beach has largely been peaceful. However, the agitation turned violent today with the police using force to evict the protesters. Police had to use teargas, water cannon after a mob resorted to stone pelting and torched several vehicles outside a police station in Chennai. LIVE UPDATES: Jallikattu protest turns violent BJP MP Subramanian Swamy believes that the sudden violence in Chennai was actually  triggered by Pakistan intelligence agency - Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Swamy claimed that jallikattu protest has been hijacked by 'anti-national' elements.  "Genuine agitators have dispersed. The main organiser said he is leaving Marina. Today there are people with Prabhakaran's and Hafiz Sayeed's posters. This is now an ISI financed agitation. O Panneeselvam has done just the right thing," Swamy said. The Rajya Sabha MP also slammed the Congress for "mischievously banning" jallikattu. "I have been fighting for jalikattu from the beginning. The Congress mischievously got it banned. We are the ones who are sympathetic to it. But these guys are saying we want permanent solution. What more permanent solution can there be" Swamy said.POLICE ACTION AT MARINA BEACHAt the Marina, the police action began early in the morning with roads to the beach being cordoned off and police personnel being deployed in large numbers.Some protesters lined up at the seashore forming a human chain and a group entered the water refusing to heed police requests to disperse.Some others staged a sit-in on the sands while others regrouped in nearby areas, shouting slogans and allegedly throwing stones on policemen.Police burst teargas shells and reportedly lathicharged to chase away a section of protesters who had regrouped at Triplicane near Marina beach and allegedly started throwing stones at police personnel.WATCH: Jallikattu protest turns violent in Chennai after police eviction