Former US President Barack Obama leaves Washington DC.


6.09pm GMT
18:09

An ongoing live stream of the inauguration proceedings is here:Currently atop the blog are video highlights from the day thus far. [Update: weve gone back to the live stream up there for the moment but will re-elevate the highlights at the right time.]The Obamas at Andrews Air Force Base, where the former president is to deliver a thank you speech to staff.Updated
at 6.26pm GMT


6.07pm GMT
18:07



6.04pm GMT
18:04

Tom DartThe Guardians Tom Dart reports from Bellville, Texas:Business was brisk in the Trump Cafe, a Donald-themed diner in the small Texas town of Bellville, an hours drive from Houston. Patrons cheered the presidents inauguration and clapped during moments in his speech when patriotism and promises united in rhetorical embrace. Larry Reed sat at the entrance behind a table selling hats, flasks, wristbands and Trump badges with the slogan Make America Great Again, President, Commander in Chief, Tweet Softly - But Carry A Big Stick.I think that weve needed change in this country for a long, long time, and thats why he got elected, the 72-year-old said. Middle America, everything other than a couple of coastal areas has been crying out for change and neither party has given it. And its time. And so they took someone with a little populism and said hey, you know what He doesnt have to be perfect. If he claims to do these things, and he does it, were going to be happy.Reed does not think electing Trump is risky. No president can bring this country down, okay Every president has had flaws, deep flaws, every one of them. Theyre just men. But if they will lead, if they will put the right people in place to implement things that we need to see, well be fine. We always are, no matter who the president is, and thats what everyone has to realise this year. Were going to be just fine if everybody will just zip their lips and watch it happen.

5.55pm GMT
17:55

The old White House climate change page  https://www.whitehouse.gov/energy/climate-change  has disappeared like a species. The old url redirects to a generic Trump splash. Read further.Update: You can read the archived Obama White House web site here.Yes, the White House website's climate change page is gone. All the policy pages on https://t.co/Ju0da64MI6 have been taken down.Updated
at 6.33pm GMT


5.52pm GMT
17:52

The Bidens are taking the Amtrak home to Delaware, of course. Theres footage now of them at Union Station. 

5.51pm GMT
17:51

Lets check the planner for whats next. Looks like steak:Afternoon: The JCCIC has planned the traditional inaugural luncheon, to take place in National Statuary Hall at the Capitol. Four years ago Obama and guests dined on steamed lobster and hickory grilled bison. The menu for this years luncheon includes Maine lobster and Gulf shrimp, Seven Hills Angus beef, and chocolate soufflé and cherry vanilla ice cream for dessert.3pm EST/8pm GMT: The inaugural parade. There has been some controversy over a few of the groups slated to perform, including the marching band from Talladega College, a historically black college in Alabama, and the Marist College Band, from Poughkeepsie, New York. Additional college and high school bands and other groups from around the country will participate, as well as national groups such as the Boy Scouts of America, Wounded Warrior Project, and representatives from each military branch, to name a few.Evening: The Trumps and Pences will attend three official inaugural balls, according to the presidential inaugural committee. Two, titled Liberty and Freedom: The Official Presidential Inaugural Balls, will be held at the Walter E Washington Convention Centre, with Sam Moore, the Piano Guys and the Rockettes listed among the performers. The Salute To Our Armed Services Ball will take place at the National Building Museum.

5.48pm GMT
17:48

Heres the text of Trumps inauguration speech, as prepared for delivery:Chief Justice Roberts, President Carter, President Clinton, President Bush, President Obama, fellow Americans, and people of the world: thank you.We, the citizens of America, are now joined in a great national effort to rebuild our country and to restore its promise for all of our people.Together, we will determine the course of America and the world for years to come.We will face challenges. We will confront hardships. But we will get the job done.Every four years, we gather on these steps to carry out the orderly and peaceful transfer of power, and we are grateful to President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama for their gracious aid throughout this transition. They have been magnificent.Todays ceremony, however, has very special meaning. Because today we are not merely transferring power from one Administration to another, or from one party to another  but we are transferring power from Washington, D.C. and giving it back to you, the American People.For too long, a small group in our nations Capital has reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the cost.Washington flourished  but the people did not share in its wealth.Politicians prospered  but the jobs left, and the factories closed.The establishment protected itself, but not the citizens of our country.Their victories have not been your victories; their triumphs have not been your triumphs; and while they celebrated in our nations Capital, there was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land.That all changes  starting right here, and right now, because this moment is your moment: it belongs to you.It belongs to everyone gathered here today and everyone watching all across America. This is your day. This is your celebration.And this, the United States of America, is your country.What truly matters is not which party controls our government, but whether our government is controlled by the people.January 20th 2017, will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again. The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer.Everyone is listening to you now.You came by the tens of millions to become part of a historic movement the likes of which the world has never seen before.At the center of this movement is a crucial conviction: that a nation exists to serve its citizens.Americans want great schools for their children, safe neighborhoods for their families, and good jobs for themselves.These are the just and reasonable demands of a righteous public.But for too many of our citizens, a different reality exists: Mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities; rusted-out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape of our nation; an education system, flush with cash, but which leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of knowledge; and the crime and gangs and drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential.This American carnage stops right here and stops right now.We are one nation  and their pain is our pain. Their dreams are our dreams; and their success will be our success. We share one heart, one home, and one glorious destiny.The oath of office I take today is an oath of allegiance to all Americans.For many decades, weve enriched foreign industry at the expense of American industry;Subsidized the armies of other countries while allowing for the very sad depletion of our military;Weve defended other nations borders while refusing to defend our own;And spent trillions of dollars overseas while Americas infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and decay.Weve made other countries rich while the wealth, strength, and confidence of our country has disappeared over the horizon.One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores, with not even a thought about the millions upon millions of American workers left behind.The wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then redistributed across the entire world.But that is the past. And now we are looking only to the future.We assembled here today are issuing a new decree to be heard in every city, in every foreign capital, and in every hall of power.From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land.From this moment on, its going to be America First.Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families.We must protect our borders from the ravages of other countries making our products, stealing our companies, and destroying our jobs. Protection will lead to great prosperity and strength.I will fight for you with every breath in my body  and I will never, ever let you down.America will start winning again, winning like never before.We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring back our wealth. And we will bring back our dreams.We will build new roads, and highways, and bridges, and airports, and tunnels, and railways all across our wonderful nation.We will get our people off of welfare and back to work  rebuilding our country with American hands and American labor.We will follow two simple rules: Buy American and Hire American.We will seek friendship and goodwill with the nations of the world  but we do so with the understanding that it is the right of all nations to put their own interests first.We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to follow.We will reinforce old alliances and form new ones  and unite the civilized world against Radical Islamic Terrorism, which we will eradicate completely from the face of the Earth.At the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of America, and through our loyalty to our country, we will rediscover our loyalty to each other.When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.The Bible tells us, how good and pleasant it is when Gods people live together in unity.We must speak our minds openly, debate our disagreements honestly, but always pursue solidarity.When America is united, America is totally unstoppable.There should be no fear  we are protected, and we will always be protected.We will be protected by the great men and women of our military and law enforcement and, most importantly, we are protected by God.Finally, we must think big and dream even bigger.In America, we understand that a nation is only living as long as it is striving.We will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action  constantly complaining but never doing anything about it.The time for empty talk is over.Now arrives the hour of action.Do not let anyone tell you it cannot be done. No challenge can match the heart and fight and spirit of America.We will not fail. Our country will thrive and prosper again.We stand at the birth of a new millennium, ready to unlock the mysteries of space, to free the Earth from the miseries of disease, and to harness the energies, industries and technologies of tomorrow.A new national pride will stir our souls, lift our sights, and heal our divisions.It is time to remember that old wisdom our soldiers will never forget: that whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood of patriots, we all enjoy the same glorious freedoms, and we all salute the same great American Flag.And whether a child is born in the urban sprawl of Detroit or the windswept plains of Nebraska, they look up at the same night sky, they fill their heart with the same dreams, and they are infused with the breath of life by the same almighty Creator.So to all Americans, in every city near and far, small and large, from mountain to mountain, and from ocean to ocean, hear these words:You will never be ignored again.Your voice, your hopes, and your dreams, will define our American destiny. And your courage and goodness and love will forever guide us along the way.Together, We Will Make America Strong Again.We Will Make America Wealthy Again.We Will Make America Proud Again.We Will Make America Safe Again.And, Yes, Together, We Will Make America Great Again. Thank you, God Bless You, And God Bless America.

5.45pm GMT
17:45

The helicopter winds up. And leaves. Theyre heading to the airport and thence to California, for family vacation. The Trumps and Pences stand on the steps, watching the helicopter go. Updated
at 6.06pm GMT


5.43pm GMT
17:43

The Trumps and Obamas stand there. Then they walk down the steps in formation. The Obamas are hand-in-hand. Their walking towards the helicopter, which sounded like it was running but the blades arent moving. The group waits for the veep motorcade to pull out. There go the Obamas. Hand in hand, walking to their ride. The Trumps follow them to the steps. Trump shakes Obamas hand. He says something in his ear. It really does look like he says, Ill call you. Trump seems to return, indecisively, the salute of a military escort holding a salute.They finish their farewell. Michelle gets in. Barack gets in. He turns to wave from the door. And disappears inside. The Trumps turn and walk back to the Capitol.Next is lunch. 

5.39pm GMT
17:39

Hugs. The Obamas and Trumps now will have a photo op with just presidents. The veeps and spouses walk down to limos. Joe and Jill Biden are hopping in one. Jill hugs Karen Pence goodbye. Mike Pence says something important to Joe Biden. 