Got kicked out of CBFC chief's office, claims journalist.
Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) chairman Pahlaj Nihalani thinks that press is the "middlemen" between "two parties" - one being a film's producers and the other being the certification board - since it questions a film's certification process.This is what was revealed when a journalist went and met Pahlaj Nihalani for an interview. When he questioned the certification process behind the recently released Hollywood film La La Land, Nihalani said, "You (press) are middlemen. You are interfering without any reason in our business."ALSO READ: Yes, I am a Modi bhakt, says CBFC chief Pahlaj NihalaniALSO READ: Pahlaj Nihalani halts Haraamkhor release, Twitter reactsALSO WATCH: Government should stop giving work permits to Pak artists, says Pahlaj NihalaniThe context was that La La Land, which was released in India with an A certificate and no cuts, was given the U/A certificate with a few cuts. The producers urged the board to revise the rating to U/A with no cuts since making the requisite cuts would require a budget that they had not been allocated. When that did not happen, the film's producers went ahead with an A certificate."ToCBFC ChairmanSub: LA LA LAND CENSOR RATINGDear Sir,We have received a censor rating of UA along with cuts for our upcoming title "La La Land" releasing in English (2D) on 16th December 2016. Although the film is expected to win several of the top awards we have a small budget allocated for this title. We will need to make the necessary cuts in Hollywood, the cost of which is very high and not possible to bear for this title. Therefore we would appreciate if the rating could be revised to "UA" with no cuts. If that is not possible we are willing to accept a clear "A" rating.Looking forward to your positive response."When Nihalani was asked whether the 'censor board', as it is popularly called in India, creates undue pressure on producers "to curtail their rights as artists", Nihalani asked the journalist to promptly leave the room.Feel like @anuragkashyap72@karanjohar@mehtahansal might enjoy this CBFC interview that got me kicked out of Pahlaj Nihalani's office https://t.co/5ZYxd3r4WGIn the same interview, which slowly turned into an argument between the journalist and Nihalani, the CBFC chief blamed producers for the repeated controversies (Udta Punjab, Haraamkhor, Spectre) that the CBFC has found itself embroiled in during his reign."The only problem is with the producers. They are making such movies. They require a controversy, so they are cashing in on it," Nihalani said.WATCH Khada Hai from Andaz (1994), produced by Pahlaj NihalaniNihalani also compared Indian culture to "heritage property" like the Red Fort and since, the government protects heritage property, it also has the right to protect Indian culture through bodies like the CBFC.When asked who defines Indian culture, Nihalani said, "The government."Couldn't stop myself from laughing at this exchange with Pahlaj Nihalani aka Keeper of Indian Culture in Films. https://t.co/VCJbhHTFjDpic.twitter.com/cZFLXeZF15Prior to becoming the official chairperson of the CBFC, Pahlaj Nihalani was a director-producer, best known for directing films like Haathkadi and producing hits like Shola Aur Shabnam and Aankhen.WATCH Mera Desh Hai Mahaan, Pahlaj Nihalani's tribute to Prime Minister Narendra ModiIronically, Nihalani, during his time as a filmmaker had expressed his discontent with the CBFC's guidelines.When the CBFC suggested cuts on certain portions of the 1996 film Dil Tera Diwana, which Nihalani had produced, because of "pelvic thrusts and (vulgar) dance movements", Nihalani complained about the "senseless" objection, which made newspaper headlines.