Sachin calling me a superstar is little embarrassing: Yuvraj.
Yuvraj Singh's innings against England at Cuttack is being hailed by the cricketing fraternity since Thursday. Yuvraj roared back to form and announced his comeback to international cricket with a blazing 150 off 127 balls which helped India win the second ODI by 15 runs and take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series. (Kohli on Yuvraj's 150: Exactly what we envisioned)It was a typical Yuvraj innings which included a staggering 21 boundaries but just three sixes. Indian cricket fans also to witness Mahendra Singh Dhoni at his very best as he slammed a 122-ball 134. The duo revived memories of their numerous match-winning partnerships of the past by adding a record 256 runs for the fourth wicket  which helped India post a mammoth 381/6 after being asked to bat first. (Yuvraj Singh, MS Dhoni hundreds give India series win over England)England then rode on captain Eoin Morgan's 81-ball 102 to get close to the target but fell agonisingly short thanks to some intelligent bowling by Ravichandran Ashwin (3/65) and Jasprit Bumrah (2/81) in the death overs. (Kohli's trust was important as I could have retired: Yuvraj Singh)Yuvraj's twitter account was instantly flooded with congratulatory messages from his fans, fellow cricketers and his former teammates. Cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar also wished Yuvi and Dhoni after the win and called them both superstar and rockstar respectively. (Vintage Yuvraj Singh is back with a bang)What an amazing partnership between a superstar and a rockstar!! We enjoyed the show :) @YUVSTRONG12@msdhoni#INDvENGpic.twitter.com/mU8o3iJfZiYuvraj though, was a little embarrassed with Tendulkar's message and he explained why after the match. (Nice to see Dhoni play freely: Yuvraj)"He (Sachin) always calls me a superstar which is a little embarrassing in front of him. He's always trying to be funny with be but I always take his wishes. Thank you very much Mr. Tendulkar for your wishes, I think they worked really well today," Yuvi told bcci.tv.