DMK calls for rail roko agitation across TN over Jallikattu.
Protests over the ban on the bull-taming continue to keep Tamil Nadu on the edge. While protests were seen across the state during the day on Thursday, people took to Marina Beach with their mobile torchlights to mark their protest in the evening.Amid the ongoing protests, DMK party on Thursday announced a statewide rail roko andolan on Friday. Earlier on Thursday, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India said that it may take the legal route if the Centre brings an ordinance to enable the conduct of jallikattu."Our campaign is against cruelty towards all animals. We will consult our lawyers and take a decision if there is an ordinance," said PETA spokesperson Manilal Valliyate. ALSO READ: Jallikattu: May take legal route if Centre brings ordinance to conduct the sport, says PETAMassive protests continued during the day on Thursday in Tamil Nadu in support of jallikattu, the ancient and popular bull-taming sport. At Chennai's Marina Beach, protesters sat through Wednesday night and on Thursday morning, demanding the lifting of the Supreme Court ban on jallikattu and action on animal rights group, PETA. With several colleges declaring holiday in Chennai and in other parts of the state, the number of students to assemble at Marina is expected to go up today as protesters have rejected Tamil Nadu CM O Panneerselvam's appeal to end the protest. ALSO READ: Jallikattu: Asked PM Modi for emergency law, he gave assurances, says Tamil Nadu CM PanneerselvamSoon after Tamil Nadu CM O Panneerselvam met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping Pon Radhakrishnan also met the PM over the issue. He said that bringing an Ordinance will actually be harmful for people of Tamil Nadu."We will also examine PETA funding," Radhakrishnan said while responding to a question about AIADMK chief Sasikala saying that PETA should be thrown out." LATEST UPDATES: ALSO READ: As Tamil Nadu CM watches MGR movie, angry Marina Beach protesters ask where OPS isMeanwhile, the Supreme Court has refused to hear a plea which sought that the apex court should hear the matter pertaining to public protest at Marina Beach. The Supreme Court has asked the petitioner to approach the concerned court in the matter. Support for the sport, meanwhile, has been rising, with Viswanathan Anand becoming the latest personality to come in support of jallikattu. The chess great tweeted, "Jallikattu is a cultural symbol. Respect it. I am all for animal rights but here that is not the point.tradition & livelihood are." HERE'S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW:WATCH VIDEO: