UAE envoy denies seizure of Dawood Ibrahim's assets.
United Arab Emirates' envoy to India Ahmed Al Banna has denied media reports that wanted underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's properties and assets were raided in UAE.He dismissed the media reports that claimed property worth Rs 15,000 crore had been seized.A couple of weeks ago when reports about raids on Dawood's properties surfaced, even BJP's official social media handles went on an overdrive, claiming it to be a masterstroke of PM Modi's diplomacy.INDIA TODAY EXCLUSIVE: India media has already painted me black, says Dawood IbrahimA series of tweets had credited PM Modi's diplomacy with the success. It said, the prime minister had handed over a list of Dawood's properties during his visit to the UAE in 2015, and demanded the authorities to act against Dawood.Speaking exclusively to India Today, UAE envoy Al Banna said a legal process has to be followed in the country for an action against any individual. EXCERPTS FROM THE INTERVIEW:Q: Coming to area of security cooperation, in recent years we have seen an extradition treaty between India and UAE and some individuals have been deported. In terms of one specific name Dawood Ibrahim, there were reports that NSA Ajit Doval has handed over a dossier to UAE, can you confirm it sirA: Well, I know there are international laws, rules and regulations, there are bilateral agreements and those agreements you know finalises any or emphasises on any decision that a country might take in terms of extraditing. Now, there is judicial system and there is a legal system and within the international framework within those agreements signed, the judicial and legal system works. Now, I have no information on who specifically they have been looked at or asked for but I know we have a very strong relationship and there has been several meetings between the NSA and our NSA and other organisations in the UAE and within that framework, within the legal framework, within the agreement there will be a final understanding.Q: Because there are also reports that UAE had cracked down and confiscated some of the properties. Again, we don't know whether it is true, untrue. Would you like to confirmA: This is the first time I hear of it. I don't know anything of that as I mentioned UAE is a country where there are rules, regulations, laws, constitution and if there are any proceedings in our legal system, within our jurisdiction system then let it be. I don't think any action can be taken against anyone without that legal process, without the jurisdiction process.Q: But if you find substance in India's evidences against Dawood Ibrahim, the UAE will actA: Then again, there are agreements as I said. The agreements between India and UAE will handle that and the meetings that will take place will handle that.WATCH: 