Indrani, Peter charged with murder in Sheena Bora case.
The Central Bureau of Investigation today filed the chargesheet in the Sheena Bora murder case in a special CBI court. The court charged Indrani and Peter Mukerjea, and Indrani's ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna with murder and criminal conspiracy. Arguments for and against framing of charges were heard by the court of Judge HS Majahan. All the three accused pleaded not guilty and the trial in the case will begin from February 1. The sections pertaining to forgery and Section 328 on causing grievous injury using poison were dropped by the court.ALSO READ: Sheena Bora: Indrani kept Peter Mukerjea posted about murder plot, says CBI chargesheet THE CBI's ARGUMENTAs per CBI's argument, Sheena was killed on April 24, 2012 by her mother Indrani. Both Indrani and husband Peter Mukerjea had conspired to kill her as they did not want to give Sheena the property that she was demanding.  Sheena was Indrani's daughter from her first marriage with Kolkata-based Siddharth Das. Indrani later married Sanjeev Khanna with whom she has a daughter Vidhie. After separating from Sanjeev, Indrani married television honcho Peter Mukerjea.  According to the CBI, Peter's son Rahul and Indrani's daughter Sheena were in a relationship and engaged to be married. Both Peter and Indrani, as per the CBI, were against this relationship. This was another motive for the husband and wife to kill Sheena, the investigating agency said. ALSO READ: Sheena Bora murder: Former colleague and witness calls Indrani a manipulator, schemer THE DRIVER's CONFESSIONIndrani's driver Shyamvar, the fourth accused, had turned an approver in the sensational murder case. Rai had confessed that he had witnessed the crime, and was present when Sheena was strangled by her mother Indrani and her half-burnt body dumped in the dense forests of Raigad, around 90 km south of Mumbai.  Sheena's body was found on May 23, 2012 by the local police, but the crime remained unnoticed till August 2015 when the sensational murder case unfolded and forensic tests confirmed that the remains belonged to her. ALSO READ: