SRK to play a magician in Salman's 'Tubelight': Reports.
Earlier, trade analyst Komal Nahta confirmed that Shah Rukh Khan will be playing an "important cameo" in Salman Khan-starrer Tubelight. Komal later deleted the tweet. When asked about the same, Shah Rukh gave a vague answer in an interview to Hindustan Times."Salman and I were planning to do something together on the business front. But then he sent me a message saying, 'Nahin karte hain yaar. Phir se log kahenge ki hamara jhagda ho gaya.' (Let's not do this. People will say we started fighting again.)," Shah Rukh was quoted as saying.Well now, if a report in Bollywoodlife.com is to be believed, Shah Rukh Khan is playing a magician in Salman Khan's Tubelight.ALSO READ: SRK-Salman to reunite in TubelightALSO READ: I'm an actor, not a vocal leader, says Shah Rukh when asked about his political correctnessALSO READ: KJo opens up on fight with Shah Rukh, love for AbRamDirected by Bajrangi Bhaijaan director Kabir Khan, Tubelight is reportedly the story of a mentally challenged man crossing the border to enter China to look for his lost brother played by Sohail Khan. Once there, the man, called "Tubelight" by others, falls in love with a Chinese girl played by actor Zhu Zhu.The story is set in the backdrop of the 1962 Sino-Indian War and is rumoured to be a remake of the 2015 Hollywood film Little Boy where a young boy Pepper undertakes a mission to find his father who gets lost while fighting in the second world war.In Little Boy, a local priest encourages Pepper to have belief in himself and tells him that if he has faith in his heart, he can change the course of the war. So, will Shah Rukh Khan's magician character be inspired by Little Boy's priest character?Recently, rumours were rife that Shah Rukh Khan is getting a temporary tattoo on his face to play his character in Tubelight. He was spotted on the sets of the film as well.Brothers with #Brothers On d set of #tubelight with d #SuperKhans #friends #Friends4Life Nazim Kazi - Kazim Kazi - Nasirr Khan with #SalmanKhan #KabirKhan & #ShahRukhKhan #SRK God bless...