Rahul Gandhi shows his torn kurta to crowd at rally.
The campaigning for Assembly elections in five states has started to gain momentum and Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi seems to have taken the lead at the moment. Rahul was in Uttarakhand today where he addressed a rally in Rishikesh.The Congress leader continued his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and even targeted the RSS, BJP's ideological mentor, during his speech. But what received a huge response from the crowd was his 'torn pocket' antics.MUST READ: From India Today magazine - Modi's new challenger: Rahul GandhiWhile slamming the Modi government over demonetisation, Rahul Gandhi stopped his speech mid-way and decided to show the torn pocket of his white kurta to the crowd. He walked towards the mic again, and said,"Mera kurta phata hua hai...lekin Modiji ka kurta kabhi phata hua nahi milta. Bade paisewalon ke saath unki photo milegi (See, I wear torn kurta. You'll never find Modiji wearing a torn kurta. He can only be spotted with the rich and powerful of the world.) "I am doing politics for the poor. Modiji's photo appears with the super rich," Rahul said.ON DEMONETISATION Taking on the Modi government over the November 8 decision of banning Rs 500, 1000 notes from circulation, Rahul Gandhi the prime minister has murdered an autonomous institution like Reserve Bank of India (RBI) with demonetisation. "The Congress party made strengthened RBI so that there is a body which is not under government's pressure as it takes economic decisions. The soul of this institution was murdered by Modiji with just one move," he said. MODI SHOULD DO TAPASYAMocking Modi over his much reported yoga expertise, the Congress scion advised the prime minister to do a little 'tapasya'. "The BJP divides people but the Congress works for the unity of the society. Modiji thodi tapasya kijiye, thoda yoga kijiye...The world should see that our PM does yoga for which he is the brand ambassador," Rahul Gandhi said. ON RSSRahul Gandhi said the BJP's ideological mentor had not hoisted the national flag at their headquarters for 52 years after India's independence in 1947."For 52 years after the independence, the RSS did not have a tricolour at their headquarters in Nagpur. They used to salute the saffron flag, not the national flag," Rahul said in Rishikesh.In 2002, the right-wing organisation had hoisted the national flag at Smruti Bhawan, which houses the memorials of the first two RSS chiefs, founder Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar and Guru Golwalkar.