Gurugram flyover work delayed due to high tension wires.
 The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is finding it tough to finalise construction of a flyover at Iffco chowk due to the presence of high tension overhead electricity wires.The flyover construction is complete except for a portion where the high tension wires are running along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway from Shankar Chowk to Iffco Chowk. The NHAI has repeatedly asked the power company to shift the lines but to no avail.The NHAI officials said the Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam (HVPN), which is the custodian authority of the high tension wires, failed to give permission to move the wires to order to complete the flyover. As per the final talks between the officials of the two departments, the HVPN was to give permission to the NHAI to take the overhead high tension wires underground. ?As per the last meeting, NHAI was to execute the plan but only after the necessary permission from HVPN. The NHAI agreed in principal to invest the fund to execute the plan but HVPN failed to the give the permission. The construction of the U-turn flyover is disturbed but the HVPN is not ready to take a decision,? said AK Sharma, project director, NHAI, adding that the HVPN might change the plan.Anil Yadav, superintending engineer (SE), HVPN, said, ?We hope the approval from headquarters come very soon in this regard. We are in touch with the top officials at and hope to get the approval in a day or two.?To put high tension wires underground, the NHAI will construct a duct or tunnel of about 500 metres.There are 12 towers of the high transmission line currently standing on the left side of the NH-8 near Iffco Chowk.Earlier, on July 10, principal secretary to the Haryana government Rajesh Khullar had asked the local administration to remove the wires before July 31.Construction of the flyover at Iffco chowk and underpaases at Signature Tower and Rajiv Chowk have to be completed by March 2018. Chief minister Manohar Lal?Khattar is expected to inaugurate on AUgust 14 an underpass near Medanta hospital and a flyover at Maharana Pratap Chowk while rest of the work would go on as scheduled.