18 Democratic lawmakers to boycott Trump inauguration event.
Washington, Jan 15 (PTI) At least 18 Democratic lawmakers have said they will boycott US President-elect Donald Trumps inauguration this week, after disclosure of Russias alleged meddling in the 2016 election and his rebuke of civil rights icon John Lewis, according to a media report today. Democratic Representative Lewis blasted Trump in an interview to a news channel, saying he would boycott the ceremony for the first time since he arrived in Congress in 1987 because he doesnt see Trump as a "legitimate" president in light of Russian interference, CNN reported. Lewis was one of three black lawmakers to testify against Trumps attorney general nominee Sen. Jeff Sessions last week. Trump had called Lewis "all talk" and "no action" and told him to focus more on "fixing and helping" his district rather than "complaining" about the Russias role. "I will NOT attend the inauguration of @realDonaldTrump. When you insult @repjohnlewis, you insult America," tweeted New York Rep. Yvette Clarke, making public his decision to boycott Trumps swearing-in ceremony on January 20. Some members of Congress have said they will be protesting in DC and in their districts instead of attending the event. "All talk, no action. I stand with @repjohnlewis and I will not be attending the inauguration," California Rep. Mark Takano tweeted. "For me, the personal decision not to attend Inauguration is quite simple: Do I stand with Donald Trump, or do I stand with John Lewis? I am standing with John Lewis," California Rep. Ted Lieu said in a statement released by his office. Arizona Rep. Raul Grijalva said he will not be attending the inauguration of Trump as the next president. The office of Michigan Rep. John Conyers, the dean of the United House of Representatives, confirmed to CNN he wont be attending the inauguration. "It is with a heavy heart and deep personal conviction that I have decided not to attend the #TrumpInauguration on January 20, 2017," California Rep. Mark DeSaulnier tweeted. "I will not be attending inauguration of @realDonaldTrump but WILL participate in the @womensmarch on January 21st," New York Rep. Nydia Velazquez tweeted. Oregon Rep. Kurt Schrader said, "Ill do my best to work with him (Trump) when I think hes doing the right thing for the country. But he hasnt proved himself to me at all yet, so I respectfully decline to freeze my ass out there in the cold for this particular ceremony." 