Kamal Haasan asks Jallikattu supporters not to harass Trisha.
Legendary actor Kamal Haasan has been vehemently speaking in favour of jallikattu, a traditional bull-taming sport, played in the heartlands of Tamil Nadu.Trisha Krishnan, who recently endorsed People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), was forced to call off the film's shooting after protests by the pro-jallikattu supports in Sivaganga district of Tamil Nadu.ALSO READ: Bairavaa ReviewALSO READ: Khaidi No 150 ReviewALSO READ: Gautamiputra Satakarni ReviewThat bein said,I am shocked n mortified at d haters n d kind of filthy language bein used jus bcoz u have free access 2 social media. pic.twitter.com/oCX0TvbsgjCondemning Tamils for the same, Kamal Haasan took to Twitter and asked people not to hurt Trisha. He wrote, "Please stop hurting Ms Trisha. Let's not hurt her (Trisha) just because she differs from our opinion. We need both Trisha and jallikattu. Let's continue to contend with love (sic)."Pls stop hurting MsTrisha.à®à®µà®°à¯à®à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®¨à®®à®à¯à®à¯à®®à¯à®³ à®µà¯à®±à¯à®±à¯à®®à¯ à®à®°à®±à®¿à®¯à®à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®à®©à¯à®©à®¿à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®µà®¾à®´ à®¨à®®à¯ à®à®¾à®³à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®µà®¾à®´ à®µà®´à®¿ à®à¯à®¯à¯à®µà¯à®®à¯. à®¤à®°à¯à®à¯à®à®®à¯ à®¤à¯à®à®°à¯à® à®¨à¯à®à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®à®©à¯In his next tweet, Kamal wrote, "My support is always for decency. Let individuals be . Dont weaken our case by slandering. Leave small people alone fight decesion makers."My support is always for decency. Let individuals be . Dont weaken our case by slandering. Leave small people alone fight decesion makers. Trisha took to Twitter and clarified that she had said nothing wrong about the sport. Secondly,I have never spoken against Jallikattu at any given point.Thank u @iam_str for making my stand clear and takin up for me as always  Disrespecting a woman and her family is tamil cultureYou should be ashamed to call urself a Tamilian or even speak about Tamil culture.  I never bow down to bullyism nor do i fear you.Get off my timeline and get a life !!! Period !!! Earlier to this, Kamal Haasan 's famous 'biryani remark' shoot the nation. Speaking at India Today Conclave South 2017, Kamal said, "If you want a ban on jallikattu, let's also ban biryani." 