LeT Kashmir Chief Abu Dujana killed in encounter.
Abu Dujana, a top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander operating in Kashmir, was killed on Tuesday in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district, police said.Dujana, 27, and another militant were shot dead during an exchange of fire between a group of militants and security forces in Hakripora village of Pulwama.?LeT chief commander Abu Dujana of Pakistan along with his accomplice killed in Hakripora, Pulwama. Huge achievement for police & SF (security forces),? Jammu and Kashmir police said in a tweet.Kashmir inspector general of police, Muneer Khan told HT the operation was still in progress. Television visuals showed plumes of smoke rising from a white building where the militant commander is believed to have been trapped during a  cordon and search operation launched by joint forces.There were reports that Dujana was  trapped by security forces at was a house in Hakripora village where he had allegedly gone to meet a local woman he had married some time ago. Kashmir director general of police, SP Vaid, confirmed Dujana was married but did not say whether the militant had gone to meet his wife. Sources quoting local residents said he was not killed in his in-laws house.Authorities cut the internet across Pulwama district ?as a precautionary measure?.Dujana carried a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head and figures among the top militants of the valley, categorised A++ by the army.Dujana was among the longest surviving foreign militants in Kashmir, hailing from the Gilgit-Baltistan region in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. He was also popular among the youth as he frequently posted photographs and video clips on social media. According to the army, he was among 12 most wanted militants active in the valley. Police say he was the mastermind in many militant attacks across south Kashmir.He is the third top militant leader killed in Kashmir since last year. Hizbul Mujahideen leaders Burhan Wani and Sabzar Bhat were killed by security forces earlier.