Pak Opp'n calls for real democracy post Sharif's dismissal.
Pakistan?s opposition leader, Imran Khan, has called for a future of ?real democracy? in the country, following the dismissal of Nawaz Sharif as prime minister over corruption charges.?We are thankful to the judiciary because with their judgment, they brought us a new hope,? Khan told a gathering of thousands of supporters on Sunday.The rally in Islamabad was a triumphant celebration for the heartthrob-cricketer-turned-populist-politician, who, since last year, has led a campaign to oust Sharif.Friday?s ruling by Pakistan?s highest court disrupted what had otherwise looked like a smooth path to next year?s election for Sharif?s PML-N party.Former oil minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi will most likely be approved as interim prime minister on Tuesday, at a special session in the 342-member parliament, where the ruling PML-N party holds a strong majority.Abbasi will hold the position for less than two months, until Shahbaz Sharif, younger brother of the ousted prime minister, is confirmed in parliament and can take over.Thousands of supporters from Khan?s Pakistan Tehreek-e Insaf (PTI) party congregated at Islamabad?s parade ground on Sunday for what had been termed a ?thanksgiving day?, the latest of Khan?s signature rallies that have helped him drum up popular support.In front of flag-flying party cadres dressed in the red and green colours of PTI, among towers of loudspeakers blasting music, Khan likened Pakistan?s rulers to ?mafia who safeguard personal interests at any cost?.?When we decided to move against Nawaz in the Panama case, everyone said it was a mistake because in the past, the powerful and mighty ones have been protected. But today I salute the court for giving hope to people for a new Pakistan,? he said.Since his political ascension in 2011, after 15 years in politics, Khan has drawn support particularly from educated urbanites disillusioned with their political elites.?Imran Khan is fighting hard to let people know their political rights and their role in society. He has been a true example,? said Syed Ishfaq, face painted red and green, who had travelled to the capital from Peshawar to participate in the celebration. Last year, Khan received a timely boost with the leak of the so-called Panama Papers, giving credence to his attacks against the political establishment, whom he has called ?the coalition of the corrupt?.After the leak, Khan filed a constitutional petition to have the supreme court investigate the purchase of high-end London property through offshore companies in the name of Sharif?s children, then minors.He organised street protests and demanded a ?lockdown? of Islamabad until the country?s highest court ordered an inquiry into the PM.Sharif, though, was not dismissed for actual corruption but for being deemed dishonest, according to the constitution?s article 62, over unreported income of about £2,000 from a Dubai-based company owned by his son. Sharif claims he never received the salary.However, he has not completely dodged a corruption verdict. In its ruling, the supreme court ordered a criminal investigation by an accountability court into the Sharif family based on materials from the Panama Papers.The ouster of Sharif has highlighted the decades-long fractious relationship between the now ex-prime minister and the military. There has been speculation that the court, with its verdict, simply did the military?s bidding, and that Khan was a handy tool for the generals to cut down a prime minister with whom they have feuded for decades. Khan?s supporters dismissed that idea.?If Imran Khan was really a puppet of the military, he would have become prime minister,? said Ishfaq, referring to a claim by Khan that former army chief Pervez Musharraf offered him the position.Friday?s court decision sparked hope among demonstrators that the country?s corrupt leaders can be held accountable. However, the appointment of Nawaz?s younger brother as new prime minister does little to accommodate equally forceful complaints that the Sharif family holds a dynastic grip on power. ?This is is not a democracy but monarchy. It is not a meritocracy. And that is why Pakistan has been left behind developed nations,? Khan said from the stage.Razmat Khan, a supporter, agreed: ?Shahbaz is the same as Nawaz. They just want to keep power in the family.?Supporters of Sharif point out that during his tenure, the economy has grown and security has improved markedly. According to the government, growth reached 5.28% last year. The number of civilians killed in terrorist attacks has dropped from about 3,000 in 2013, when Sharif came into office, to 612 in 2016.?I would give a bit of credit to Nawaz Sharif,? said Ishfaq. ?But it is the law enforcement agencies that have brought peace.?Yet, the improvements are tenuous. Violence has recently resurged in a string of attacks by the Pakistan Taliban and Islamic State, which constitutes a moderate but growing threat in Pakistan. Economic growth is held up by a swelling account deficit, and an overvalued currency is hampering exports. Growth has also not seeped down to the lower classes who make up the majority of the nation of more than 200 million people.?Thousands are jobless. There is no unemployment plan, and no economic policy except securing kickbacks,? said Sheraz Hassan, who drove his three children on a motorbike to the gathering.Many of the celebrating Khan supporters hoped that Pakistan had turned a page. ?The prime minister of Pakistan has been brought to justice,? said Ishfaq. ?That is very rare.?