Virat and his team will win more games than me: MS Dhoni.
Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who stepped down as captain of India's limited-overs teams last week, is addressing his first press conference after relinquishing his position. CLICK HERE TO WATCH FULL VIDEODhoni will feature in the ODI series against England starting January 15. He reportedly wants to play on till the 2019 World Cup. Virat Kohli, who took over as captain, said he hoped Dhoni would play fearlessly after the shedding the burden of leadership. The 35-year-old is also expected to bat higher up the order under Kohli and could be key to India's success as they seek to defend the Champions Trophy in England later in the year.Here are the highlights from Dhoni's press conference:- I wanted to bat low because we didn't have any explosive batsmen lower down the order. Depends on the situation and I will see where to bat. - Won't grow my hair.- To the long story short - in my mind, my last series at home was vs South Africa. Split captaincy does not really work. It was always in mind when Kohli took over the Test captaincy. I wanted him to have some time and then I decided it was time to move on and give Kohli the full captaincy.- As a wicketkeeper, I will have to keep a close eye as to what the skipper really wants "I don't believe in split captaincy. For the team there has to be only one leader" @msdhoni#TeamIndiapic.twitter.com/vjbJilTJX0- I had a chat with Kohli to see where he wants his field. - Overall, it has been a journey for me, the ups and downs. When I started, there were a lot of senior players and we had to make sure the transition was smooth when they left.- The juniors who came in when the seniors left will take the legacy forward. It has been a journey I have really enjoyed-  Kohli and I have always been very close. He was never worried when he missed out but he always wanted to contribute whenever he got a chance. Was waiting for right time,ws waiting for Virat to ease in into test format. Feel this team has the potential to win in all formats-MS Dhoni pic.twitter.com/8T17nreoRB- My job will be to assist Kohli whenever it is needed. I will tell him what I think from behind the stumps. As a wicketkeeper, I will get to see the game and see details. - The more I can serve Kohli, the better it will be for Indian cricket "I believe this team will be the most successful Indian team under Virat's captaincy" @msdhoni#TeamIndiapic.twitter.com/gzGAoj1I4J- - The more I can serve Kohli, the better it will be for Indian cricket- I was willing to bat lower down the order because I thought I could do it. I am ready to bat wherever the team wants me to bat - As a captain you have to be very practical- Sometimes you have to give false confidence to a player.- You may face a few problems but more often than not, you look at the bigger picture. You have to see who can win big games for you - Always thought there were too many press conferences. You need fresh views from a player. One press conference after the match is enough- The skipper is best placed to go. Became difficult to convince the local organisers that press conferences were not needed- Press conferences were a waste of time- Split captaincy does not work in the Indian set-up. It's the right time to step down. This team has the potential to win more games than any other team has.