Bengaluru cancels David Guetta's show scheduled for tonight.
The organisers of the big-ticket show of David Guetta, one of the top disc jockeys in the world, cancelled his concert which was scheduled for tonight.The organisers cited law and order issues following the molestation incident during the New Year eve as the reason for scrapping the show, which was billed as one of the biggest events in the city's annual cultural calendar.The organisers said they hope to reschedule the concert if they get permission from the authorities and the artist but there is no clarity at the moment. "We at Sunburn tried our very best to make it happen but the authorities understandably are not prepared to take any chances. Hence today's concert unfortunately stands cancelled," the organisers said.POLICE DENY CLAIMBangalore Rural Police, however, said the organisers sought permission for the event on January 10. Bengaluru Rural Superintendent of Police said the concert has not been cancelled, but the organisers have been asked to fix a different date due to the APMC polls. Bangalore IG (Central) Seemanth Kumar Singh denied any law and order issue and said police will seek a clarification from the organisers.  ALSO READ: Bengaluru mass molestation survivors: First time ever we felt unsafe CONCERTS IN OTHER CITIESA Grammy award winner, Guetta is a French DJ, record producer, remixer and songwriter. Guetta enjoys immense popularity in India and first performed in the country in 2012.The profits from the special charity performance at the gig, put together by the organisers of Sunburn -- one of the India's biggest electronic dance music festivals -- was supposed to go towards educating underprivileged children."India is a magical place. The energy that I get from the country and the fans creatively inspires me. Music can change lives," Guetta had said in a statement last month.Best known as the big daddy of EDM, Guetta is on a four-city tour which was expected to begin from Bengaluru and then move to Mumbai, Hyderabad and New Delhi.Guetta first toured India in 2012, and has subsequently performed to massive crowds all across the country. Other than his charity gig, Guetta will performing in Mumbai on January 13, in Hyderabad on January 14, and in Noida on January 15.ALSO READ:Bengaluru mass molestation issue been blown out of proportion, says Karnataka energy minister 