PM Modi reduced Gandhi to his spectacles: Bapu's grandson.
In a candid conversation with India Today Consulting Editor Rajdeep Sardesai during a session at the India Today Conclave South 2017 on the second day of the event, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, Mahatma Gandhi's grandson, said, "The present Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reduced the name of Mahatma Gandhi to his spectacles.""But the question is why does he need those spectacles? He needs it because there is room for veracity," Gandhi said.BJP speaks about Sardar Patel because he also stood for veracity, Gopalkrishna Gandhi said.PRAISE FOR KERJIWAL, KANHAIYAMaking a nuanced comment about the need for idealism-based politics, Gopalkrishna Gandhi said, "There is great hope in India for non-cluster, non-family, non-right-wing politics. Right-wingism is about being on the side of majority (ignoring others).""Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal brought a fresh hope on Jantar Matar few years ago. I don't know how will Kejriwal perform but he brought some fresh hope," Gopalkrishna Gandhi said."Kejriwal, Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh (Mevani) bring hope for new politics of India," said Gandhi adding, "The governments come and go but he electorates and the electorate vending machine stay. I believe, India will produce such people, who will protect the country from its leaders."ADVICE FOR RAHUL GANDHIOn a query drawing comparison between him and Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi over electoral politics, Gopalkrishna Gandhi said, "I was playing safe by not joining politics. Rahul Gandhi has taken a big risk by joining politics."He said, "I would like Rahul Gandhi to tell India, "I don't want to become the prime minister of India. I want to serve my party for life because it fought for the freedom of the country. I want to serve my party. But I want a prime minister to emerge from the ranks of the Congress. But, I am giving up all hope to become prime minister of India"." 6 OTHER STATEMENTS GOPALKRISHNA GANDHI MADEResponding to a question about ideology-based politics, Gopalkrishna Gandhi said, "End of ideology is a good thing. It means the end of ideologues. It also means the end of (political) posturing.""Constitution does not give any ideology. It speaks of justice. My idea of ideology is justice.""Hindu party of India is BJP. But, it did not win the majority vote. Majority vote was scattered. Hindu vote got consolidated."