India stands for 3 Ds - Democracy, Demography, Demand: Modi.
Addressing the Vibrant Gujarat summit in Gandhinagar today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today told global investors that India's strength lies in its 3 Ds - Democracy, Demography, and Demand. "Gujarat, the land of Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, also represents the business spirit of India," Modi said. "Over the last two and a half years, we've also evolved a culture of healthy competitions among states which are being rated on the parameters of good governance," he said. "We have seen in the last two and a half years that it is possible to deliver quick results in a democratic set-up as well," the PM said. Earlier, Modi met several visiting foreign dignitaries including President of Rwanda and Prime Minister of Serbia to promote bilateral relations and investment opportunities. A number of India's leading corporate leaders including Mukesh Ambani of the Reliance Industries, Ratan Tata of the Tata Group and Mukesh Adani of the Adanis also addressed the event. Modi also met several delegates from different nations as well as Fortune 500 CEOs including John Chambers of Cisco on the sidelines of the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit.BUSINESS TYCOONS PRAISE GUJARATMeanwhile, industry stalwarts like Ratan Tata and Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani lauded  the Gujarat's potentials."If you have not visited Gujarat you are stupid. It is the fastest growing state. I am fortunate to have a car company in Gujarat," said Ratan Tata.Business magnate and chairman of Reliance Industries Limited said that the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit got better each time. "History will record you PM Modi as a great transformative leader," said Ambani."By Diwali entire Gujarat will be covered by Jio 4G," he added. Praising PM Modi, Ambani further said that the he transformed Gujarat and he is now transforming India. Business tycoon Gautam Adani said that his Adani Group Commits Rs 49,000 crore investment in Gujarat, 25,000 local employment in next 5 years and  will invest in water.CEO of Suzuki Motors, Toshiro Suzuki said that the company will expand its Gujarat plant to the capacity of 7,50,000 units. Here are the latest updates: Also read: