'Moonlight' wins Best Motion Picture Award at Golden Globes.


12.09am GMT
00:09

Benjamin LeeIMPORTANT: an NBC presenter just told Pharrell he was nominated for his work on Hidden Fences. Pharrell was polite enough not to tell her she?d just made up the name of a film.ALSO IMPORTANT: Al Roker referred to Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel as Jaystin Timberlake and Jessica Alba.Updated
at 12.10am GMT


12.01am GMT
00:01

Benjamin LeeNatalie Portman has arrived and she is the frontrunner for best actress in a drama for her role in the unconventional biopic Jackie. She?s pregnant and wearing Prada. Sadly our fashion expert is at London Fashion Week so that?s literally all I can say about her dress. 

11.52pm GMT
23:52

Benjamin LeeAnd let the Trump chat begin. Insecure star/writer Issa Rae, who is nominated for best actress in a TV comedy/musical, was asked about the reality star turned president-elect and gave some rather bleak red carpet chat about what?s to come:Golden Globe nominee @IssaRae on Donald Trump's Twitter account: "It's scary" pic.twitter.com/E1Ap92p9BX

11.49pm GMT
23:49

Benjamin LeeHere?s a promo for the show which, through the power of montage, makes it seem like it might just be the most exciting night of our lives:

11.43pm GMT
23:43

Benjamin LeeTREND ALERT: Michael Shannon and Sterling K Brown are both wearing sunglasses on the red carpet. Which seems rude but sure.

11.40pm GMT
23:40

Benjamin LeeWill it be Moonlight or Manchester by the Sea? More smugging to be done here with Guardian film critic Peter Bradshaw telling you who will in but also who should win because life isn?t fair and it never will be:

11.34pm GMT
23:34

Lanre BakarePleased to have @questlove on the #GoldenGlobes Red Carpet! pic.twitter.com/Fvrg7FzRl7This clip featuring Roots drummer Questlove, really gets to the heart of what fame is all about. Glamour and passive aggressive instructions from photographers go hand in hand. OVER HERE! Thank you!?!Updated
at 11.36pm GMT


11.32pm GMT
23:32

Benjamin LeeWord on the street (Twitter) is that the opening of the ceremony is going to be Stranger Things-themed. But this just-released clip also suggests some La La Land-aping. Subtle shade from one of Jimmy Fallon?s NBC cohorts earlier: ?He may not be controversial but he is musical?

11.26pm GMT
23:26

Benjamin LeeWant to say the name of the winner before a bejeweled celebrity does? Well, if you want to be that guy or that girl then smug away with predictions from our experts. First up, here?s what?s probably taking home the small screen awards:

11.24pm GMT
23:24

Benjamin LeeIt?s here! That Hollywood awards show that isn?t the Oscars! The Golden Globes, often seen as the slightly less highbrow cousin of the Academy awards, is actually a lot more fun. It eschews many of the drier categories (no best use of a pause or smoothest transition here!) and allows the many starry attendees to get drunk throughout.Typically, the host has always been a bit looser too so we?ve enjoyed Amy Poehler and Tina Fey casually eviscerate A-listers and Ricky Gervais ensure that he receives zero LA-stamped Christmas cards forever more. This year, we have the slightly safer option of Jimmy Fallon but he?s already promised Trump jokes and, let?s face it, he owes us an electoral college worth of them after he televised the pair?s sleepover last year.It?s also a promising crop up for awards this year, a slightly fresher pack than usual with La La Land, Moonlight and Manchester by the Sea leading the film side and The Crown, The Night Manager and The People vs OJ Simpson making a strong showing.But who will win? Who will lose? Who will mispronounce a nominee?s name and go viral? We?ll be here with you all damn night providing answers and probably some yawns too. Stick with us!