Modi must go, let Advani, Jaitley or Rajnath lead: Mamata.
A belligerent Mamata Banerjee continued her attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi today, demanding that he must abandon his post and be replaced by another senior BJP leader as the head of the government."In the current situation, a national government should be formed with another BJP person at the helm. He (Modi) has to go," the West Bengal Chief Minister said in Kolkata.Mamata even had the names who could replace Modi. "To save the country, let a national government be formed: Advaniji, Rajnathji or Jaitleyji can head it," she said.Also read | Furious over MP's arrest, Mamata demands jail for PM Modi, Amit Shah for Gujarat riotsMamata said she will urge President Pranab Mukherjee to help in the matter. "Only he can rescue the country. We feel he has a great role to play," the Trinamool Congress chief said.TMC PROTESTING SINCE BANDYOPADHYAY'S ARREST  Mamata's Trinamool Congress has been on the streets since Tuesday after their Member of Parliament Sudip Bandyopadhyay was arrested on charge of involvement in the Rose Valley chit fund scam and sent to six-day custody.Another Trinamool MP Tapas Paul is already in CBI's remand in the same case, triggering accusations of "political vendetta" by the party.On Thursday, Trinamool Congress MPs staged a protest march to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) but were detained on their way. A day earlier, they had protested at Modi's official residence.Speaking after the administrative meeting, Banerjee once again trained her guns on Narendra Modi for creating a financial and agrarian crisis in the country. She said, around 82 lakhs of people are jobless in West Bengal and around 2 crore are in huge economic distress.  According to her the crisis in agrarian sector is driving the state to a famine like situation.Also read | Bengal BJP Chief accuses Mamata of inciting violence, demands President's rule The Trinamool Congress has also accused BJP member and Union Minister Babul Supriyo of not only involvement in the scam, but also "tricking" him into the fraud, a charge reiterated by Paul's wife Nandini.Mamata said that Modi might slit her throat for being vocal, but she will not stop from criticizing the Prime Minister. Her party will continue with the campaign against notebandi and she will visit a BJP ruled state soon to demonstrate against demonetisation.Supriyo, meanwhile, said he will file defamation suits against the TMC leaders and Paul's wife.