 It is phenomenal to see Virat Kohli play: Google CEO Pichai.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai is in India. And just the way he did it last time when he was here in December 2015, he is again meeting young students. In his earlier trip Pichai interacted with students at Delhi University. But this time he chose to visit his alma mater IIT- Kharagpur.As expected, during his conversations with engineering students at the IIT, from where Pichai graduated in 1993, the Google boss was very candid. He talked about his time at the IIT, including how once he got C grade in one paper and discussed the mantras of success. He also talked about what he loves and what he doesn't, giving a glimpse into not just his usual business day at the Google office but also into his more personal space. Here are 10 bits that stand out from his interaction with the engineering students.1- While at IIT-Kharagpur, Pichai was among the more brilliant students. But once he also got C grade in one paper, he told students, emphasising that grades aren't everything.2- Pichai loves Bollywood. "Deepika Padukone, you can call, is my favorite Indian actress right now. Back in college there were many."3- And he totally loves cricket. "I love cricket. It has been phenomenal to see Virat Kohli play. He has performed great in all forms of cricket, be it 50 overs, test or T20."5. Pichai believes India should allow its students to take more risks. "Education system in India is made in such a way that students have to follow set rules. I think it is more important to try different things, take more risks and students should follow their passions more."Also read:  In India, there won't be any driverless cars: Google CEO Sundar Pichai 6. He met his wife in IIT. "I met my wife Anjali at IIT Kharagpur, so whenever I asked a friend to call her, they would shout loudly Anjali, Sundar is here for you," he said.8. Pichai told engineering students that others skills are important too. "It is important to develop other skills during a course like engineering. Writing is an important skill to learn.