Dhoni is the greatest ever one-day captain: Nasser Hussain.
Mahendra Singh Dhoni stepped down as India's limited-overs captain but not before leaving behind a rich legacy. (MS Dhoni steps down as India's limited-overs captain)The dashing wicketkeeper-batsman from Jharkhand had announced himself with a bang in international cricket. A few years down the line after India's shocking exit from the 2007 World Cup, Dhoni took over the reins of the ODI team from Rahul Dravid. (MS Dhoni led India in 199 ODIs, 72 T20Is: Stats)In his first assignment as India captain, Dhoni gave a glimpse of what was to come for the next decade. With his long mane and aggressive intent, Dhoni carved a niche for himself and led a young team to glory in the 2007 World T20. (Dhoni made the right decision by stepping down as limited-overs captain: Ganguly to India Today)WATCH THE FULL VIDEO HEREAgainst the visiting Australian later that year, Dhoni got the chance to acquaint himself with the pressures ODI captaincy brings. But by the time India toured Australia and the CB Series got underway, Dhoni knew what to expect.Dhoni's Devils shocked the Aussies and the rest of the world by winning the first two finals of the CB Series. He was now the toast of the nation and almost spoken of as reverentially as Sachin Tendulkar. (Dhoni good enough to continue as a player till 2019 World Cup: Kapil Dev)Three years later came Dhoni's crowning glory. Leading India in the World Cup would have been a dream for him but Dhoni has never been the kind to discuss his own fantasies on the field. In fact he insulated his players from the media hype and intense pressure and delivered the World Cup for the second time in history with a classic knock at the Wankhede Stadium. (MS Dhoni's highs and lows as limited overs captain)The two years that follows the glorious summer evening in Mumbai was nightmarish. Under Dhoni, India lost overseas across all formats. There was even a Test series defeat to England at home. But in 2013, Dhoni defied all odds and lifted the Champions Trophy I'm England, becoming the only captain to have won all three ICC events.