PM Modi can?t take over states: Kiren Rijiju on mob lynching.
Charges and counter charges flew in the Lok Sabha on Monday over the issue of lynchings, with the Opposition parties targeting the Modi government and the ruling side asserting that it was the responsibility of the state governments to deal with such crimes.During the discussion, Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge criticised the Prime Minister for not talking about the issue enough and listed the various incidents of lynchings across the country.  BJP?s Hukmdev Narayan Yadav defended the government?s response and, referring to political killings  in Kerala, questioned why only certain incidents were considered lynchings.In the Rajya Sabha, after initial uproar  over the alleged kidnapping of MLAs by police in Gujarat, the house adjourned briefly before resuming Question Hour.Congress? Madhusudhan Mistry alleged that his party MLAs were being ?kidnapped? and offered ?Rs 10-15 crore? with a view to influence their vote in the August 8 elections to send three members from the state to the Rajya Sabha.Here are the highlights: 6:30 pm: Lok Sabha adjourned for the day.6:29 pm:?The more you are raising the issue, the veil of the opposition is getting unveiled. The more you try to defame us, the more the Opposition gets defames: Kiren Rijiju6:23 pm: Mother Teresa was not allowed to enter Arunachal Pradesh during Congress rule. If there has been one instance of persecution of Christians in Arunachal Pradesh after our rule, I?ll resign: Kiren Rijiju6:13 pm: Mob lynching is the worst form of crime, it should be condemned universally. Why do you raise selective issue. Previously it was intolerance, then award-wapsi, freedom of expression: Rijiju. 6:08 pm: Do you want the PM should break the federal structure and take over state machinery: Rijiju during lynching debate.6:04 pm: There is a trend in the country, the highest number of atrocities in India have taken place against scheduled castes: Rijiju.5:55 pm: Uproar in Lok Sabha during Kiren Rijiju?s statement.5:50 pm: Kiren Rijiju says issued advisory to every state that strong action should be taken against incident of mob lynching.5:45 pm: Asaduddin Owaisi says the instances of mob lynching will continue as this government promotes religion as an ideology.Is cow protection an essential part of Hinduism? asks Owaisi. Stop the shadow army. Our battle is against Hindutva and not Hinduism: Owaisi5:32 pm: When we should be discussion about digital India, it is sad irony that we are discussing about mob lynching:?Indian Union Muslim League  MP PK KunhalikuttyWe are discussing a fundamental principle of secularism that we should uphold, it is sad, says Kunhalikutty.5:20 pm: There seems to be a different between the words and action of Prime Minister: Mohammad Asrarul HaqueModi govt doesn?t only seem listen but also helpless. People who have skull cap and beard, women in burkha are today scared to step outside in public, he says.  5:18 pm: RJD MP?Jay Prakash Narayan Yadav say, ?The person who doesn?t differentiate between human and animal, there is a devil inside him.?5:08 pm: BJP?MP Prahlad Joshi talks about attack on BJP?MPs in West Bengal. Evokes sharp reaction from opposition members for not mentioning death of other people.4:39 pm: Maharashtra MP Supriya Sule says we should send a message as a uniform Parliament that we condemn lynching.?Yoga Day message should be about ahimsa and not just about surya namaskar,? she says.?The person who killed Junaid is out on bail. We should make regulation that someone who has killed someone shouldn?t be out on bail,? says the NCP?lawmaker. 4:29 pm: Mohammad Salim of CPI-M says the gathering of mob has a historical, political, psychological  aspect. There is a long history and it is not a spur of the moment occurrence. 4:17 pm: TDP?MP?from Guntur, Jayadev Galla, says mob violence, ?shows of strength in numbers, majority rule mentality and doesn?t have place in a peaceful society.? He says cow violence has reached an alarming proportion.... And it can?t be isolated into BJP or non-BJP?states.4:12 pm: Arvind Ganpat Sawant, MP?from Mumbai-South speaks on lynching. ?If there is hate, some say they are going perpetrate double the amount of hate,? he says.3: 55 pm: Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav says, ?Exploitation of and atrocities against women is high. It should end in the family first. Then it will stop in your locality, village and cities.? 3:45 pm: BJP?MP Hukumdev Narayan Yadav claims majority of Muslims in India are descendants of Hindus, PTI?reports.3:35 pm: BJD?s Tathagata Satpathy says, ?The gau rakshaks don?t know that more than half the cows in India are Jersey cows. Not their mother. They should recognise their mother.It?s sad if we can?t recognise our own mother.?Satpathy wonders why nobody is bothered about indigenous breeds of cows. 3:18 pm: AIADMK?s Dr K Gopal calls the situation of rising violence against minorities is worrisome. He names lynching incidents and says that the issue of beef is polarising.3:15pm: Kharge responds to Paswan?s comments there was no ?josh? in his speech. ?If you had an operation, you wouldn?t even be able to get up,? Kharge says.3:10 pm: Paswan targets CPI and asks why the killing of 6 people during its rule was not called ?a ?riot?.Paswan says the House needs to pass a resolution to condemn incidents of lynchings. ?Whenever something like this takes place, all chief ministers must ensure perpetrator is arrested and investigation begins within 24 hours.?3:05 pm: ?PM Modi has never mentioned Babri Masjid or Ayodhya or Article 370. He only speaks of development,? says Paswan.3:00 pm: Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan says, ?The Prime Minister has condemned these incidents twice. Do you want him to send in the army when such incidents happen??2:55 pm:  Quiet resumes as Roy speaks again. He says he has a few suggestions. ?In the IPC and the CrPC, lynching not defined. We need a new and exclusive law on protecting against lynching,? Roy says.2:54 pm: Uproar as MPs yell at each other across the aisle. 2:53 pm: BJP?s SS Ahluwalia lashes out, ?Strike this from the record. This is unfair. He must also bring the source of his information here and validate. Only then should he be allowed to talk further.?2:50 pm:  Roy compares the killing of Muslims to the targeted killing of African-Americans by Ku Klux Klan in the US. ?In 23 attacks, the attackers were from Bajrang Dal and Hindu groups,? he says.Roy says, ?Yeh sab bandar hai! (These groups are the BJP?s monkeys.)? Uproar as MPs call the comment ?unparliamentary?.2:45 pm: Kiren Rijiju interrupts Roy, asking him on what basis he was making these claims.2:37 pm: TMC?s Saugata Roy speaks and clarifies he does not want to talk about general mob violence but bovine-related mob violence. Between 2010 anmd 2017, 63 people were killed in cow-related incidents of mob violence, Roy says.?I don?t want to bring Hindu-Muslim into this but 97% of these killings took place after Narendra Modi came to power. 86% were Muslims. I want to ask members of the ruling party, you say you want Congress-mukt Bharat. Do you want Muslim-mukt Bharat??Roy says 52% of the killings took place in BJP ruled states.2:30 pm: Yadav cites Ram Mohair Lohaia?s example, saying he was a socialist who didn?t believe in Gods but knew prevalence of Hindu culture and traditions, and respected it.2:26 pm:  Yadav says, ?The ancestors of the Muslims were Hindus. Therefore the gods, the culture and traditions are also their?s. They must think about this.?2:20 pm: Debate resumes in Lok?Sabha. Yadav continues his speech. 2:15pm: Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawarchand Gehlot begins the debate. Congress? BK Hariprasad says Opposition is not happy with the way government pushes Bills in the Parliament.2:00 pm: Rajya Sabha takes up Constitution (123rd) Amendment Bill, 2017 and National Commission for Backward Classes (Repeal) Bill, 2017.1:15 pm: Lok Sabha adjourned till 2:15 pm for lunch. Yadav to speak for five more minutes after that.1:14 pm: Yadav says, ?Muslims must learn to live with Hindus respecting their culture and traditions.?1:12 pm: ?Why is it wrong to say Vande Mataram these days? Is this not mob lynching?? Yadav asks.1:10 pm: In the Lok Sabha, Yadav attacks the Congress saying,?You have done dharmik atyachar, samajik atyachar, mansik atyachar, arthik atyachar and ruined the country.?1:05 pm: In Rajya Sabha, Question Hour concludes. House adjourned till 2 pm for lunch.1:03 pm: Yadav says, ?The Junaid incident was a fight over a train seat. Why are you linking it with religion? What about the killings in Kerala? Are we not human? Are they not lynchings because they are not Muslims??1:00 pm: Yadav asks,??Is the mob lynching of DSP Ayub Pandith in J&K not an incident worth mentioning??12:57 pm: Yadav says, ?The PM himself has condemned the mob incidents repeatedly. It?s upto states to follow law. Centre can?t send paramilitary forces there on its own.?12:55 pm: BJP?s Hukmdev Narayan Yadav says government has been addressing the issue and taking action. He asks why the Opposition is questioning the government?s intention.12:50 pm: Kharge concludes with,?Duniya mein sab ka yahi hai kehna, Shanti aur chain se zinda rehna...Let us be Hindustan and not Lynchistan.?Two hours were alloted for the discussion. Kharge spoke for over 35 minutes.12:47 pm:  ?This government is imposing itself on what a person can eat and who one can love,? says Kharge.12: 45 pm:  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar interrupts Kharge for mentioning a former President?s name citing rule 352.Kumar says, ?Kharge must validate all the documents he is reading from. Every state government has taken action against each of these incidents. He is misleading the House.?12: 36 pm: BJP benches raise a ruckus. Speaker warns Kharge about duration of his speech.12:34 pm: Kharge quotes a BJP leader as saying that there was ?no regret over the death of Pehlu Khan because he was a cow smuggler.?12:32 pm: BJP members protests reported facts being read out by Kharge. 12:30 pm: In the Lok Sabha discussion, Kharge says, ?The Prime Minister has not spoken about the killings on his Mann Ki Baat programme.?12:28 pm: Meanwhile, first two questions in the Rajya Sabha are about MNREGA.12:26 pm: Kharge mentions incidents in Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. He says he is only listing them.12:24 pm: Nishikant Dubey of BJP says, ?The cases of violence Mr.Kharge is mentioning are already in the courts, so why is he saying all this? He cannot speak about these cases.?12:22 pm:  The Lok Sabha has begun a short-duration discussion on lynchings and mob violence. Mallikarjun Kharge of Congress says, ?There?s a feeling of threat in many states, especially because of fringe groups. Incidents of lynching and mob violence are not under control. Taking matters into one?s hands and exercising violence or killing another is unacceptable.??The government is indirectly encouraging groups like the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and gau bhakts,? Kharge says.12:12 pm: Lok Sabha postpones Zero Hour to end of the day.12:07 pm: Question hour ends in Lok Sabha. Speaker dismisses all adjournment notices. Arun Jaitley introduced all the Bills listed today.12:02 pm: Chair praises MPs for not exceeding time alloted to them and allowing him to wrap up all notices to end Zero Hour on time.12:00 pm: Issues raised in the Upper House include changes in NET, impact of demonetisation, transaction on BHIM app and privatisation of Railways. 11:45 pm: Rajya Sabha returns from adjournment. Zero Hours resumes. 11:30 pm: MPs protest in the well in Rajya Sabha. Congress creates ruckus over alleged kidnapping of MLAs by police in Gujarat. House adjourned for 10 minutes.11:20 am: Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha. Congress? Madhusudan Mistry raises issue of Gujarat MLAs resignations.11:05 am: Question hour in Lok Sabha.10:40 am:Bills to be introduced in Lok Sabha todayThe Central Goods and Services Tax (Extension to Jammu and Kashmir) Bill, 2017The Integrated Goods and Services Tax (Extension to Jammu and Kashmir) Bill, 2017The Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Bill 2017 Bills for consideration and passing today:The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Amendment) Bill, 2017The Banking Reguation (Amendment) Bill, 2017The Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy Bill, 2017Bills for consideration and passing in Rajya Sabha todayThe Constitution (123rd Amendment) Bill, 2017The National Commission for Backward Classes (Repeal) Bill, 2017The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Bill,2017