Woman makes man give to charity for calling her 'available'.
"When can I meet you? What is your "rate"? "Will Rs 3,000 do? Shall I book a hotel room?"  These were the questions fired at Sreelakshmi Satheesh, CEO of an educational consultancy firm in Kerala and a motivational speaker, when she attended a call from an unknown number.  Since then, her phone rang a number of times, all unknown numbers. When she chose not to attend the calls, text messages poured in, asking for her "rate". It soon escalated to a state where she had to switch her mobile phone off. The "rate" had by then reached Rs 25,000. Sreelakshmi was shocked, but only for an hour. Then she decided to act. She turned her phone on, dialed one of the numbers from which she had gotten a call earlier and spoke to the fellow who answered with nauseating enthusiasm. He shuddered when Sreelakshmi told him about her profile and soon began begging for forgiveness. It wasn't a tough task for her to figure out how this fellow got her phone number. He shared the screenshot of the conversation in a Whatsapp group where a man posted her number referring to her as a "super item". Learning that the man who posted her number on the group was an acquaintance, someone who used to wear the mask of a decent man whenever they interact, and most of all, the regional secretary of the youth wing of a national party, Sreelakshmi decided to act, to file a police case.Party workers, who realised Sreelakshmi is going to the cops, began calling her, apologised, and pleaded with her to settle the matter outside the court. She had only one demand -- the man should be expelled from the party -- and as proof, she asked for the party meeting minutes where the decision is taken. Sreelakshmi was to receive the party minutes by 8 PM yesterday, but did not. She decided to file an FIR. When the man's father, an old man, went to meet Sreelakshmi to beg for forgiveness and to request her not to file an official complaint, she thought of an alternate way. Sreelakshmi asked the old man to tell his son to donate Rs 25,000 to any charitable organisation and produce the bill as proof.The fellow did so, and produced the receipt as proof. Unable to control her anger, Sreelakshmi narrated the entire episode in a Facebook post, and the post soon went viral with over 1,317 shares, 1.200 comments and 4,500 likes. In the comments, many Facebook users lauded Sreelakshmi for teaching the "future leader" a lesson he would never forget, but as always, there were many who questioned the authenticity of the whole incident. There are also many girls, and other women, sharing similar personal experiences in the comments, and asking Sreelakshmi for help and guidance on how to tackle the issue of online harassment and blackmailing.  