CBI to probe appointment of AAP Minister's daughter.
Appointment of Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain's daughter Soumya Jain as the advisor in the health department may land Arvind Kejriwal government in further trouble. With the recommendation from Delhi LG, the case of Soumya's appointment as the Advisor to the Mission Director, Delhi State Health Mission has been referred to the premier investigating agency, CBI to further investigate into the matter. The letter, which has been forwarded from Delhi government after getting direction from LG office, has cited several reasons for the investigation in the matter of Soumya's appointment by the CBI. READ| Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain slapped with Rs 25,000 fine by Supreme CourtLETTER SENT TO CBIThe letter was written to the Superintendent of Police, Central Bureau of Investigation earlier this month to look into the points in which irregularities are being suspected.The copy of the letter is in Exclusive possession of India Today, in which government has asked for detailed investigation into the matter by CBI.  The letter gives a detailed overview about the manner in which the Health Minister's daughter was appointed as the Advisor in the same department, where Satyendra Jain is a minister. ALSO WATCH:A CASE OF NEPOTISM?Forwarding letter to the CBI mentions that Soumya Jain was appointed as Advisor to the Mission Director, State Health Mission, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of NCT of Delhi, to look health sector reforms with retrospective effect from 18th April 2016, in response to her application made on 1st April 2016. Interestingly, the letter says that although the appointment has been made on 18th April but the Mission Director under, which she has to work has given approval for her appointment on 10th May 2016. The letter to CBI also mentioned that as per her application and Bio Data she doesn't seem to have any experience of health sector as Soumya has the background in the field of architecture.APPOINTMENT WITHOUT A SELECTION PROCESSThe case, which has been made against Soumya's appointment, further says that her appointment was in response to her request and not a result of selection through open and transparent process. The letter also says that she offered her services without any financial consideration, but the information provided by the Administrative Department reveals that an amount of Rs 1.15 lakhs was spent on her tour and training. It further says that the proposal regarding her appointment is silent about the existence of the post of Advisor, Mission Director at the relevant time.SERIOUS QUESTIONS UNANSWEREDPointing fingers on the Kejriwal government's intention to appoint Soumya Jain as the Advisor, the letter raises some serious points too. One of the points in the five-point-letter also says that the selection process in the government cannot be reduced to favoritism and it must offer opportunity to all concerned to apply and compete so as to attract the best talent around. READ| BJP MLA and supporters demand Satyendra Jain's removal, shave head in protestThe letter also quoted Article 14 of the constitution in the forwarding letter to the premier investigating agency, which provides insight on the process of appointment in government organizations. It says that since an Advisor can influence decision of government with consequential bearing on finances and hence the selection process needs to be neutral. APPOINTMENT FILE AMONG THOSE UNDER THE SCANNERThe letter also clearly mentions that in view of the direction of LG office to submit the files which require approval of Lieutenant Governor, the file related to Satyendra Jain's daughter Soumya as Advisor to the Mission Director, Delhi State Health Mission was also submitted by the Health and Family Welfare department to the LG office. 