Talking about toilets is still taboo in India: Akshay Kumar.
Akshay Kumar, whose forthcoming movie Toilet Ek Prem Katha stresses on the importance of building toilets and ending open defecation, hopes the film changes people's mindset about this "taboo topic in Indian society".Akshay said in an interaction with the media, "Talks on toilet are still taboo in India. I remember when I had to say a dialogue in the film which is, 'Ab biwi ghar aaye na aye, sundaas to laakar hi chhodunga is gaon mein', people were rethinking if I should say it or not. But as an individual, I think it is necessary... I mean who does not go to the toilet?"However, he is hopeful that things will change."Our youth is very strong minded. They understand the necessity of using the toilet. Some people are starting to talk about it, which is great... It means awareness has been created. See, it is also about the mindset. In places where I have gone, I heard people saying, 'We don't do it (defecate) in the same house where we cook food'. But how can they openly defecate on the field, from where the food is coming? Government is doing its part (by sanctioning public toilets)... People should also take a step," said the Airlift actor.Directed by Shree Narayan Singh, Toilet Ek Prem Katha also features Bhumi Pednekar, and is releasing on August 11 this year.Considering the fact that the Hindi film industry is going through a rough patch and that footfalls in theatres are decreasing, Akshay was asked if ticket price is one of the reasons behind that. He said, "But then regional films and Hollywood films are doing well. If the ticket price is not affecting their business, then why ours? Maybe content is responsible then."Whether it is Airlift, Rustom, Jolly LLB 2 and even Toilet Ek Prem Katha, Akshay is acting in stories that project realism.Asked if that is a strategy, the National Award-winning actor said, "If you are talking about issue-based stories like Toilet Ek prem Katha, I think being a successful actor by the grace of God, if my association gives the film a better mileage and if the story intrigued me, I do it. I got to know from research statistics that one child dies every five minutes in our country because of open defecation. Do you understand the intensity of the issue? That apart, if there's any story that is interesting, I do it."Toilet Ek Prem Katha is Akshay Kumar's second release in 2017, after Jolly LLB 2 that hit the screens this Holi. Kumar was honoured with the Best Actor title at the National Film Awards this year, for his work in last year's Rustom.