Please 2017, give me a week off: Priyanka.
A day after the 88th Annual Academy Awards in February this year, Priyanka Chopra was the most searched person on Google after Leonardo DiCaprio, who had just won his first academy award for best actor. In PeeCee's words, she found it bizarre that she came in second after bechara (poor) Leo and that, after all, she was another girl in a dress at the world's biggest motion pictures' event and also that it had just been three months since she made her American small-screen debut with Quantico's first season. Fans across the globe fell in love with Priyanka's strapless gown but not many know that 20 minutes before her red carpet appearance, Priyanka Chopra's entire team had a panic attack as almost her entire dress was transparent. THE DRESSPeeCee's dress was completely sheer and when she wore the now viral Oscar dress, Priyanka realised that the lining of the dress started from her knees, thus the top was effectively see-through. Also read: Watch: Priyanka Chopra totally slayed it at the Global Citizen Festival in NYC Also read: Emmy Awards: Priyanka Chopra is red carpet perfection in this red gown It is hard to believe but Priyanka's team hand-stitched the dress on to her, and the outfit would have completely come off had she stepped on her dress. "The stars aligned in 2016. I've had some amazing moments this year," she said, as a sea of Assamese dignitaries along with their extended families flocked a small makeshift studio in Guwahati to click a selfie with the actress. Priyanka was surprised when the government of Assam offered her to be the brand ambassador for tourism of the state but she was visibly elated. One suspected Priyanka would permanently settle in the US ever since she landed a slot on American primetime television. The actress however, clearing the air, said, "I have not moved to America, Mumbai is my home." As far as her blink-and-miss appearance in the Baywatch trailer goes, Priyanka assured us that she had a great part in thefilm and that fans would get to see much more of her in subsequent promotional material for the film. Also read: These pics prove Priyanka Chopra is the hot favourite cover girl for international magazines right now 