Highest pub in the UK goes on sale for ?7.6 crore.
A pub which holds the record for being the highest in the UK is going on for sale for £900,000.The 17th-century Tan Hill Inn in the Yorkshire Dales stands 1,732 ft (528m) above sea level. It was named the highest in the Britain by the Guinness Book of World Records in 1976, beating the Cat and Fiddle Inn in the Peak District with an elevation of 1,690 feet (515m).The listed building, which boasts panoramic views of the surrounding area, is regularly cut off by heavy snowfall and current landlady Louise Peace said she had been snowed in about 50 times, for between three and 11 days, since she bought it with her husband in 2005.A ?solitary inn? was noted to stand on the same spot on the Pennine Way in a 1586 guide book and the location near the village of Keld in Swaledale is popular with walkers hoping to see glimpses of the Northern Lights.Peace said the new owner of the pub would need to have stamina, eccentricity and love. ?It needs a nice family network, it?s a fantastic place, it needs a family that can pass it on to the next generation,? she told local media. ?It warms your cockles, it?s an amazing place.?It?s like having a child. You love it and nurture it, then it?s time for them to move on and you wish them all the best. You can?t not love Tan Hill. You can?t not miss it, you really can?t. It?s in your blood. But I still have to say ?cheerio? and let someone else take it on to the next level.?Peace, who is giving up the business to go and join her husband Mike at their retirement home in Somerset, said she had already had inquiries from potential buyers.In 2009, people celebrating New Year?s Eve at the Tan Hill Inn were stranded there for three days following a heavy snowfall. In November last year, the band Scouting For Girls were cut off along with around 200 others after playing a Children in Need gig at the pub. Guests were forced to squeeze into the inn?s 30 rooms, with many sleeping on sofas and floors.