Artistes refuse to perform at Trump's inauguration event.
As unsettling as it might be, Donald Trump is America's President-elect. After a harrowing Election season that saw a dramatic climax last month, The Donald is gearing up to enter The Oval Office--with hardly (and understandably) anyone ready to welcome him. Keeping aside his history of not paying those who perform at his rallies and of him not being an exact gentleman, Trump's inauguration function has hit headlines even before making it to the world.   Reportedly, several A-list artistes have denied to perform at the event that kicks off on January 19, 2017. Trump who has, in the past, expressed his disdain over musicians who endorse politicians, is now said to be immensely "unhappy" with his organising committee's failed attempts at securing popular names. Also Read: Hillary Clinton delivers a presidential speech, says Trump will be our presidentNames like Elton John, The Chainsmokers, Idina Menzel, Celine Dion, Garth Brooks, KISS among others have refused to perform at Trump's inauguration citing one reason or another.While Anthony Scaramucci from Trump's transition team seemed almost sure of Elton John performing at the event and establishing a "pro-gay stance" on Trump's behalf, John's rep almost instantly denied the claim and told The New York Times, "Incorrect. He will NOT be performing."Singer Idina Menzel made her annoyance with Trump apparent and told Vanity Fair, "I mean, look: All the artists in the world got up and tried to get our girl [Hillary Clinton] elected, and it still didn't happen, so we're all still trying to recover from that."Rapper Ice T didn't hold back and posted a tweet saying, "I just got call to perform at the Inauguration. I didn't pick up and Blocked the number."All of Me singer John Legend had earlier explained the reason behind artists not wanting to associate themselves with Trump, "We tend to be more liberal-minded. When we see somebody that's preaching division and hate and bigotry, it's unlikely he'll get a lot of creative people that want to be associated with him."Also Read: Donald Trump picks 'Death by China' author for trade advisory roleSeeing his inauguration event running into a tunnel without a light at the end, an evidently-miffed Trump(like always) took to Twitter and wrote, "The so-called "A" list celebrities are all wanting tixs to the inauguration, but look what they did for Hillary, NOTHING. I want the PEOPLE!"Model and Legend's wife, Chrissy Teigen was quick to reply in a series of tweets. "Hi--we are people. You are our president too. I don't want you to be, but u are. Also we ALL know you are dying without the approval, dear," she wrote. 