Berlin truck attack suspect shot dead in Italy's Milan.


4.40pm GMT
16:40

Updated
at 4.56pm GMT


4.28pm GMT
16:28

Cristian Movio, 36, who was shot by Anis Amri, has paid tribute to his colleague, Luca Scata, who fired the shot that killed the Berlin attack suspect.AFP reports that Movio praised his partner to one of his visitors in hospital. He is quoted as saying: My partners actions were exemplary, he reacted immediately when the pistol came out.After Movio was hit by a bullet in the shoulder, Scata, 29, fired twice in quick succession. Scata has only been in the police force for nine months and is three months into a probationary period in Milan, according to AFP.Updated
at 4.32pm GMT


4.13pm GMT
16:13

Tunisias president has told the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, that he firmly condemns the cowardly terrorist act in Berlin.In a statement on Friday, Beji Caid Essebsi called for tighter cooperation to fight the plague of terrorism that threatens the security and stability of all countries.The alleged attacker, Anis Amri, who was shot dead on Friday, was a Tunisian national. He was supposed to have been deported from Germany, but authorities said they could not get the right papers from Tunisia.Tunisian authorities say the reason it took so long to issue Amris papers is that they needed to carry out so many identity checks. Amri reportedly used at least six different names and three different nationalities in his travels around Europe.Updated
at 4.18pm GMT


3.51pm GMT
15:51

French authorities are refusing to comment on how the Berlin attack suspect apparently crossed into France and left again in the face of an international manhunt, AP reports:Milan police chief Antonio de Iesu said earlier that Anis Amri had surely passed through France, a country that has been living in a state of emergency for more than a year after deadly Islamic extremist attacks.France upped security on the road borders with Germany after Mondays Christmas market attack in Berlin and introduced extra security forces on trains last year after American passengers thwarted an attack on an Amsterdam-Paris route.The interior ministry, prime ministers office and presidents office would not comment on the Milan police announcement that Amri was found in Italy with a train ticket from Chambéry, France, the day before.The French interior minister, Bruno Le Roux, visited a Paris train station on Friday morning to inspect security measures ahead of the Christmas holidays. He said more than 91,000 police and military forces were deployed across the country.Updated
at 4.08pm GMT


3.21pm GMT
15:21

A German security official said the Berlin truck attack suspect has been linked to an extremist recruitment network allegedly run by a preacher arrested last month.From AP:Holger Münch, the head of the federal criminal police office, said that Anis Amris name has come up in the past in connection with the network centring on a 32-year-old German-based Iraqi, Ahmad Abdulaziz Abdullah A, aka Abu Walaa. He would not elaborate.Walaa was arrested on 8 November with four other men, accused of being the ringleader of a group whose aim was to steer people to Islamic State in Syria. Prosecutors say the network smuggled at least one young man and his family to Syria.Updated
at 3.30pm GMT


3.10pm GMT
15:10

Stephanie KirchgaessnerAmris killing is an international story, but it is also comes at a critical time in Italys domestic politics. Paolo Gentiloni has been prime minister for nine days and had been consumed by a bank bailout of Monte dei Paschi di Siena just an hour before the shooting.It did not take long for the issue to become a source of political controversy. Beppe Grillo, the head of the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, joined Marine Le Pen, of France, Geert Wilders, of the Netherlands, and Nigel Farage, of Ukip, in using the incident to criticise Europes open border policy under Schengen, which he said needed to be reviewed. He said:Its crazy that two ordinary officers should be put at risk and finding themselves having to deal with a terrorist wanted by half of Europe.The problem was the the result of a migrant crisis that was out of control, said Grillo.The Five Star Movement has described itself as post-ideological, and neither left nor right in its political leanings. But Grillos response and evocation of the migrant crisis was in line with other rightwing leaders in Europe. Updated
at 3.15pm GMT


2.46pm GMT
14:46

Stephanie KirchgaessnerAfter he was approached by police, Amri told the officers that he did not have documents and that he was from Calabria, according to a report in La Repubblica. The officers pressed him, however, and asked him to show them what was inside his backpack, at which point he slipped his hand into his bag and retrieved the gun, shooting Movio. Luca Scatà returned fire and Amri fell to the ground. La Repubblica reported that he did not die instantly. Updated
at 2.56pm GMT


2.44pm GMT
14:44

Rightwing politicians are queueing up to make hay out of Amris shooting in Milan.How about border controls asks Beatrix von Storch, MEP for the far-right Alternative for Germany party.Islamist Amri bis Italien gereist u in Mailand bei "Routinekontrolle" aufgeflogen.Netter Zufall. Wie wäre es jetzt mal mit GRENZKONTROLLENConservative MEP Daniel Hannan has also commented underneath a map which he claims shows Amris movements, although these have not been established and there has been no suggestion that he travelled through Paris:Anis Amri's movements in Europe. He had arrived illegally but could not be deported. Something has gone badly wrong. pic.twitter.com/bx17t3ozTEUpdated
at 3.43pm GMT


2.41pm GMT
14:41

Movio, who was shot by Amri, looks to be recovering well. Cristian Movio, uno dei poliziotti che hanno neutralizzato il killer di Berlino, è rimasto ferito. Qui con i colleghi che lo rincuorano. pic.twitter.com/3eOcCzGSno

2.34pm GMT
14:34

Italian state police have tweeted a picture of where a bullet fired by Amri entered the uniform of the wounded Italian police officer Cristian Movio:Bullet hole in the uniform of the policeman wounded in the shoot-out with Anis Amri. Now having surgery but not in a critical condition pic.twitter.com/BOx8lF9QwZUpdated
at 4.17pm GMT


2.31pm GMT
14:31

The Dutch far-right leader Geert Wilders has joined Marine Le Pen and Nigel Farage in using Amris shooting in Italy to take a swipe at Schengen. The Freedom party (PVV) leader, recently found guilty of inciting discrimination against Dutch Moroccans, tweeted: So Anis Amri enters EU as asylum seeker, commits terror in Germany and travels to Italy.And closing our borders is a bad idea @MinPres 

2.24pm GMT
14:24

Heres video footage showing part of Merkels press conference:"My great thanks goes out to the Italian security forces, Italian police and authorities" - German Chancellor https://t.co/bArceiTFUI pic.twitter.com/0ckRmjM41EUpdated
at 2.35pm GMT


2.16pm GMT
14:16

The Berlin Christmas market attacker pledged his allegiance to Isis (Islamic State) leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and called for Isis supporters to take revenge against crusaders bombing Muslims, a video posted on Amaq news agency showed, according to Reuters.1) Breaking: #ISIS' Amaq releases video of #Berlin attacker pledging to #ISIS prior to attack pic.twitter.com/B2TOb182MQ2) Vid was published minutes after Amaq posted acknowledgement that #Berlin attack suspect Anis Amri was killed in police shootout in #Milan https://t.co/DjEvqrbUq13)Anis Amri claims his attack is vengeance for airstrikes against Muslims, he wishes to punish "pig-eaters"& to become a "shaheed" (martyr)4)This video gives further indication that Amri had ties with #ISIS, but that his attack itself was ISIS-inspired, not ISIS-coordinatedUpdated
at 2.28pm GMT


2.10pm GMT
14:10

Merkel extends condolences to the families of those killed for whom this Christmas will be a Christmas of deep sorrow.The death of Amri does not end the investigation, says the German chancellor. They will seek to find out who was helping him and covering his acts. Merkel says she has asked for an investigation into each and every aspect of the case of Mr Amri as the case has raised a number of questions. Wherever there is a need for a political or legislative change, that will be done speedily, she pledges. The chancellor says she spoke to the Tunisian president and the process of sending back Tunisian refugees from Germany who have no right to stay will be speeded up. More need to be sent back, says Merkel.We can be relieved that one acute threat has come to an end but the threat that comes from terrorism - that is a general threat - continues.With that, the press conference ends.Updated
at 2.35pm GMT


2.04pm GMT
14:04

Anglea Merkel says she was informed by the Italian prime minister that Amri was killed. I thanked the Italian prime minister.She wishes Cristian Movio, the Italian officer who was shot, a speedy recovery.Terrorism is a challenge for all of us and it is good to see how resolutely and how well we work together across Europe, says Merkel.Updated
at 4.17pm GMT


1.46pm GMT
13:46

Milan police say Cristian Movio, 36, the officer who was injured in the shootout with Amri, has had an operation on an injury to his right shoulder, AP reports. The surgeon says it was a superficial wound and that he was in good condition.Movio managed to fire a round against his attacker but his partner, 29-year-old Luca Scatà, fired the shot that killed Amri.Scatà has only one years experience on the force. His shot to the chest killed Amri.Milans police chief, Antonio De Iesu, said the officers became suspicious after noticing Amri alone outside a closed suburban Milan train station at 3am. When asked, Amri said he had no ID papers. He also had no phone and just a small pocket knife.But De Iesu said he had a fully loaded 22-caliber pistol that he used against the officers. He is a ghost, De Iesu said, referring to Amris lack of documents or phone.Updated
at 4.30pm GMT


1.44pm GMT
13:44

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, is expected to make a statement at 3pm (2pm GMT).Erklärung von Kanzlerin #Merkel zum Fall Anis #Amri gegen 15 Uhr: https://t.co/0lQLkkBo9l #BreitscheidplatzUpdated
at 1.53pm GMT
