Woman kills sister for showing interest in her boyfriend.
Growing closeness with her sister?s boyfriend claimed the life of a 24-year-old woman in northeast Delhi?s Shastri Park near Seelampur last week. The woman, identified as Sonam, was shot dead at point blank range by her sister Shazia using a country made pistol at their home on December 14. The pistol belonged to the boyfriend of the accused. He used to hide the gun at her house. Both Shazia and Sonam were divorced.On Monday, the northeast district police arrested 21-year-old Shazia and recovered the weapon of offence, even as she tried convincing the police that her sister was killed by her stalker who had been harassing her for the past some months. Police said Shazia cooked up the stalking story to mislead the probe.A senior police officer said that during the questioning, Shazia disclosed the alleged involvement of her boyfriend Waseem. She said that he gave her the idea of killing Sonam. The couple was angry with Sonam as she had threatened to reveal their relationship to their parents. Sonam had also allegedly started showing interest in Waseem. AK Single, deputy commissioner of police (northeast), said that last week, Shazia and Sonam entered into an argument over this. ?Their fight turned into a scuffle during which Shazia took out her boyfriend?s pistol and shot Sonam at point blank range,? Single said. As Sonam collapsed, Shazia rushed out with the pistol and went to the house of her neighbour Abid, who had been introduced to her by Waseem. She left the pistol at Abid?s home and returned.Shazia informed her parents who were out at that time. They returned home and rushed Sonam to a nearby hospital where doctors pronounced her dead on admission. The hospital authorities then called the police. The police took Sonam?s father into custody for questioning as the family had not informed them about the firing. Shazia and other relatives were also questioned. ?She initially tried misleading us with a stalking story which she cooked up to hide her own crime. But as her behaviour was suspicious and there were discrepancies in her statement, we questioned her separately during which she confessed to the crime,? said the officer.Waseem and Abid were absconding after the crime and teams have been formed to nab them. The police want to know why Waseem had kept the pistol at Shazia?s home. ?Whether Waseem has a criminal background can be confirmed only when we arrest and question him. The antecedents of Abid are also being verified,? the officer said.  