Solar power plants to be installed in Dilli Haats.
In a bid to go green, the Delhi government has decided to install solar plants at major art and culture hubs across the national capital. To start with, the Dilli Haats at Pitampura and Janakpuri will adopt green energy. The solar plant coming up at Dilli Haat, Pitampura ? once ready ? is going to be self-sufficient in electricity generation. Slated to be commissioned in March, it is going to cover 98.5% of the power demand of the haat.?Dilli Haat, Pitampura will almost become power sufficient through this solar initiative. Moreover, we are going to save 40% on our electricity bills. At present, we buy power from a discom at Rs 8.7 per unit. Once the solar system is commissioned, we would get power at R 5.10 per unit,? said Rajesh Juneja of Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) who is in-charge of the project. The average power consumption of Dilli Haat Pitampura is about 140 kilowatt (kW) and the roof-top solar plant is going to generate 138 kW.The one at Janakpuri, on the other hand, will be smaller with a capacity of 50 kW. When asked why the famous Dilli Haat at INA wasn?t included in the project, an official from the power department said, ?Dilli Haat INA was the first choice, but almost all of its roof-tops have shadow areas. This is because the area has a lot of eucalyptus trees and to install solar panels, a roof-top has to be clear and must get direct sunlight.?Next, the government plans to install a solar plant at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College and Dwarka Court. It is also setting up another 75 kW plant atop the Old Secretariat building, where the Delhi assembly meets.Delhi has an installed capacity to generate 32 MW of solar power. The solar policy mandates that the city should have 35 MW by December 2016 and 119 MW by the end of 2017.Delhi?s Solar Policy makes it mandatory for all government buildings with a minimum shadow-free rooftop area of 50 sqm to generate 5 kW or 15% of the sanctioned load..dilli_wrapbox {width:auto; font-family:"Open Sans"; padding:10px; border:solid 1px #666; float:left; margin-right:1%}.dilli_headline {font-size:150%; float:left; margin-bottom:3px}.clrboth {clear:both}POWERING DILLI HAATSHow the government aims to light up the Capital?s important hubs