Delhi man dies after being shot in celebratory firing.
A 50-year-old man succumbed to a bullet injury that he allegedly received in celebratory firing during a wedding function in west Delhis Nangloi area, police said on Monday.Mohammad Yusuf, who was working as a waiter at the venue, was hit in the neck when the accused, identified as Dharmender, fired from his illegal pistol, eyewitnesses told police. Police said the incident took place at around 11.30pm on December 7 during the ring ceremony celebrations at a community centre in Nangloi. A police team rushed to the spot after guests called the control room after the firing. The team took Yusuf to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. Yusuf, a resident of Budaun district in Uttar Pradesh, remained critical at the hospital and stopped responding to treatment. He died on December 15.Dharmender, who fled the spot after the firing, was arrested on December 8 from Najafgarh. Police recovered the pistol that he used to fire the shots and three cartridges from his possession. Preliminary investigations suggest that Dharmender intentionally fired at Yusuf after he had a scuffle with him over some service issue. However, the matter for the time being after the intervention of guests at the venue. Police said that the 32-year-old is a repeat offender and was arrested earlier in 2009 in an attempt to murder case during a similar celebratory firing. They said Dharmender deals in property in the area and doesnt have any stable business. A case of murder and illegal arms act has been registered against Dharmender at Nangloi police station, police said.Earlier this month, a 25-year-old pregnant dancer was shot dead by a drunk guest while performing at a wedding function in Punjabs Bathinda. She had allegedly refused to dance with the man. A 10-year-old boy was also allegedly killed in celebratory firing during a wedding function in Gorakhpur. In another incident last month, a woman was killed and three others seriously injured when a self-styled god woman Sadhvi Deva Thakur and her private security guards went on a celebratory shooting spree at a wedding in Haryanas Karnal.