5 lakh robbed from ATM cash van in east Delhi.
 Three robbers looted  R 5 lakh from a cash van in east Delhis Pandav Nagar on Monday, the first such incident after demonetisation. The incident took place around 2:30 pm when the Brinks Security cash van had come to replenish an SBI ATM on Patparganj Road in E-block. Police said, Abdul Kadir, a cash custodian from the bank, took out a bag full of money from the van and was walking towards the ATM when three men on a bike snatched it from him. The bag contained R5 lakh, all new currency notes of R2, 000 and R 500.Although he tried to resist, one of the assailants fired thrice to threaten him and managed to snatch the bag.One of the robbers was wearing a helmet and the others two had their faces muffled, police said. Police have taken the footage from nearby shops to scan the CCTV records.Police said the robbers were on a Bajaj Pulsar bike, but the registration number has not been traced so far. They said the gunman who was accompanying the van staff also fired in retaliation but the robbers escaped. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Omvir Singh said, Locals couldnt tell us the registration number of the bike. A case has been registered. CCTV footage from the area shows that the bike reached the spot following the van. As soon as the van reached near the ATM, the bike came closer to the van.  Sati Singh, 30, a security guard posted at the SBI ATM said, I was inside the ATM when the cash van arrived. Suddenly, I heard of gunshots and I downed the shutter to save myself. Panic gripped the area after the heist and the local shopkeepers came out only after senior police officers reached the spot. Police sources said they have collected footage from more than 20 shops that are situated on the road. All the accused appeared to be in mid-twenties, police said. The ATM is located between three stores that deal in tyres. The area is usually congested with heavy vehicular movement. Police have also roped in personnel from special staff to solve the case.