Moti Bagh rape: Constable held for misusing Home Min sticker.
Delhi Police arrested a CISF head constable for allegedly ?misusing? a Union home ministry sticker that was found on a car in which a 20-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a driver in Moti Bagh on Wednesday.Police said when investigation into the rape case was on, an agriculture ministry official sent a complaint, accusing CISF head constable Omkar Singh of misusing the sticker entrusted to him by the ministry.Singh had reportedly passed on the sticker to his son, Mohit Pawar ? the owner of the car in which the woman was allegedly raped. Pawar used the sticker to avoid paying toll and for free parking.Sources said Pawar had blackened the validity date on the sticker and illegally used his car as a cab. Since the car had an MHA sticker on the windshield, it was not stopped at barricades or flagged down by traffic cops.Read: Woman allegedly raped in car in Delhi?s Moti Bagh area, accused arrestedThe CISF initiated a departmental probe against Singh and said action would be taken against him. He is posted at the motor transport department of the force.?The sticker was issued to Singh to give him access to Krishi Bhavan for official reasons. After the sticker?s validity ended, Singh did not return it to the ministry and instead blurred out the portion where its validity was mentioned. His son kept using the sticker as a pass at many places to avoid paying toll tax. On top of that, he hired a driver and was using his private car for commercial purposes,? a senior police officer said.?Pawar had been using the car to earn extra money for the past two years. He had hired the driver, Avneesh, two months ago,? he added.Police said Pawar will be questioned in the case. ?We have registered a case of criminal breach of trust against Singh and he has been arrested. He was later let out on bail,? said DCP (south) Ishwar Singh.Meanwhile, the arrested driver, Avneesh, has been sent to judicial custody. During questioning, Avneesh has reportedly told the police that he had helped the woman by giving her a blanket and allowing her to sleep inside his car for the night as she did not wish to return home. The woman, however, told the police that she was confined in the car by the driver, who then allegedly raped her. ?Initially Avneesh was in denial but on sustained interrogation he confessed to the crime. We also recovered the woman?s phone from his car that she had dropped when she escaped,? a police officer said.Read: Mobile phone in a ?white, long? car: How Delhi Police solved Moti Bagh rape case