Minor drugged, gang raped in East Delhi's New Ashok Nagar.
A 15-year-old girl was drugged and allegedly gang raped by three men in east Delhi?s New Ashok Nagar area on Friday afternoon. All the three accused in the case have been arrested.The incident took place a day after a 20-year-old woman was allegedly driven around in a car for over two hours and then raped by a driver in south Delhi?s Moti Bagh area.According to the police, the three men ? all neighbours ? allegedly barged inside the girl?s house and made her sniff chloroform, while she was in the kitchen. After she fell unconscious, the men allegedly took her to their room, where they were consuming alcohol, and then took turns to rape her.According to the police, the accused ? identified as Prashant, the landlord of the girl, Vikas and Sanjeev ?allegedly raped the 15-year-old and then dumped her in and fled. Read: Woman allegedly raped in car in Delhi?s Moti Bagh area, accused arrestedAfter the girl regained consciousness, she returned to her home and narrated her ordeal to her uncle and aunt. She knew the men as they often visited the girl?s house.Police said the girl had come to Delhi from Bihar a week ago to take care of her aunt and uncle who had recently met with an accident. ?The girl came to Delhi because her uncle had undergone a foot surgery after he met with an accident. Since they did not have any children, the girl had offered to take care of them,? a senior police officer said.The girl alleged that the incident took place when she was cooking in the kitchen and her uncle and aunt had gone to the hospital. The three men barged inside and put a cloth on her nose, following which she became semi-conscious. She said that she tried to resist but was overpowered by the men.After the girl?s uncle and aunt returned home, they found her missing and started looking for her. When they could not find her, they raised an alarm and asked locals to help them find her. Read: Five-year-old raped by her uncle in Delhi?s Dilshad Garden?A while later, the girl returned and her guardians were shocked to see her in that condition. Her aunt then approached us and we immediately registered a case. A team then swung into action and the men, including the landlord were nabbed. The girl has identified the accused and they were arrested,? a police officer said.Police suspects that the men had planned the rape. ?There were bottles of alcohol that we found in the room where the men raped the girl. It appears that they were having a party and planned the rape. They knew that the girl was alone at home and was not strong enough to resist their bid. They are being questioned,? a police officer said.