Delhi BJP appoints new presidents for all 14 districts.
Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari on Thursday appointed new presidents for 14 districts. This is first set of major appointments by him since his elevation as head of the party on November 30.  Sources privy to the development said  Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), two Delhi MPs, and two former state unit chiefs  had played a major role in selecting names for  the coveted posts. Although Tiwari said the party had tried to strike a balance by accommodating each section of the society, there has been no representation of Dalit, minorities and women in the panel.Sources said out of 14, five names had strong RSS backing while eight names were recommended by two former Delhi BJP?heads.    Read: BJP?s laddoo drive to thank Delhi residents off to a damp startAnother senior state leader said ?choices? of four MPs were completed ignored and names proposed by RSS and a former Delhi BJP?president were included in the final list which had surprised party functionaries.  The state unit of BJP is divided into 14 districts for smooth functioning. Each district comprises five assembly constituencies and 20 municipal wards. The district presidents are: Roshan Kansal (Keshav Puram), Arvind Garg (Chandni Chowk), Ajay Mahavaar (Northeast), Pravesh Verma (Navin Shahdara), Lalit Joshi (Mayur Vihar), Santosh Pal (Shahdara), Bharat Bhushan Madaan (Karol Bagh), Anil Sharma (New Delhi), Vedpal Maan (Northwest), Ramesh Khanna (West), Suman Prakash Sharma (Najafgarh), Azad Singh (Mehrauli), and Mithilesh Singh (South Delhi).However, Tiwari denied that the list was influenced by a group of leaders or any individual. ?The BJP?has a lot of capable and diligent workers but only 14 names were to be chosen. It is not right to say that the list bears a stamp of a particular leader or supported by  one individual. Read: Delhi BJP chief to meet party councillors next weekStill, we have 50 posts for which names are to be announced. We will try to accommodate representation of each section of the society. No one will be left out. Bigger and significant posts are still remaining,? said the newly appointed party chief. Tiwari said  new working committee would soon be appointed. Names of state office bearers such as vice presidents, general secretaries, secretaries, and treasurers are expected to be finalised before January 10, he said. 