CISF to train students to teach Metro manners to commuters.
Next time you are not standing in queue for a security check in the metro or not allowing passengers to de-board first, you may be asked by schools kids to follow the rule. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), responsible for the security in the Delhi metro, will tie up with schools near metro stations and ask students to act as volunteer to ensure discipline and etiquettes in Delhi metro.The CISF has prepared a 16-point pamphlet, which will be distributed among commuters in the metro by the students. Some of these points are keeping baggage in flat position in X-ray machine, waiting behind yellow line and not sitting on the floor.  About 30 lakh passengers travel in metro everyday and most of them don?t follow  basic etiquettes. The students will make people aware so that commuting in Metro becomes easier.Read More:Fare hike on hold, Delhi Metro eyes more revenue from video ads at stationsO P Singh, DG CISF said that students are the future of the country and imparting security, discipline and etiquettes awareness to the students will go a long way in building a secure society. ?We will rope in students to render social service in Delhi metro network to generate awareness among the commuters regarding various issues affecting metro safety, security and discipline. Around 400 students from 11 educational institutions including schools and colleges of Delhi have participated in the drive,? he said. Last year, Delhi Metro launched a series of animations and puppet shows to inculcate good commuting habits among schoolchildren. Read More:Delhi Metro?s Phase 4 to get govt nod this weekIt has conducted 200 puppet shows at schools across the NCR. Started in July 2015, the puppet shows have been organised in various government schools, Kendriya Vidyalaya(s) and private schools covering more than fifty thousand (50,000) students of the age group between 10-14 years and above so far.The Delhi Metro also organizes these puppet shows at all the depots, residential colonies of the DMRC network to spread awareness about travelling etiquettes in Delhi Metro among children. 