Who is Air Marshal BS Dhanoa, the new Air Force chief.
Lt Gen Bipin Rawat has been appointed as the new chief of Army Staff and Air Marshal BS Dhanoa will take over as the new chief of Air Staff.Lt Gen Bipin Rawat is presently serving as  VCOAS of the Indian Army from 01 September 2016. He was commissioned in the Fifth Battalion of the Eleven Gorkha Rifles in December 1978, from IMA, Dehradun, where he was awarded the 'Sword of Honour'.He has vast experience in high altitude warfare and counter insurgency operations. He commanded an Infantry battalion, along the Line of Actual Control in the Eastern Sector; a Rashtriya Rifles Sector and an Infantry Division in the Kashmir Valley.He has tenanted instructional appointments at Indian Military Academy, Dehradun and at Army War College, Mhow. Lt Gen Bipin Rawat has held important staff appointments at Directorate General of Military Operations and Military Secretary's Branch at Army HQ.WATCH VIDEO He has also been Major General General Staff at HQ Eastern Command. He commanded a Multinational Brigade, in a Chapter VII mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUC).An alumni of Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, the Higher Command & National Defence College Courses, the General Officer,  during the span of over 35 years service in uniform, has been awarded for gallantry and distinguished service with the UYSM, AVSM, YSM, SM, VSM, COAS Commendation on two occasions and the Army Commander's Commendation.  Whilst serving with the United Nations, he was twice awarded the Force Commander's Commendation.Prior to taking over as the VCOAS, Lt Gen Bipin Rawat tenanted the appointment of the GOC-in-C, Southern Command.NEW AIR CHIEFAir Marshal BS Dhanoa will succeed Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha who will retire on December 31, 2016.Air Marshal Birender Singh Dhanoa AVSM YSM VM took over as the Vice Chief of the Air Staff (VCAS) on 01 June 2015. He was commissioned in the IAF in June 1978 as a fighter pilot. He is an alumnus of Rashtriya Indian Military College, the National Defence Academy and the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. Air Marshal Dhanoa is a Qualified Flying Instructor and has flown various types of fighter aircraft in his distinguished career. During the Kargil Operations, he commanded a fighter squadron and himself flew numerous night strike missions in the mountainous terrain. He has the distinction of having held a number of the important operational appointments including Station Commander of a fighter base and leader of an Indian Military Training Team abroad He has also served as Chief Instructor (Air) at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Intelligence) at Air Headquarters and Senior Air Staff Officer of two operational Commands. Prior to being appointed as Vice Chief of the Air Staff, the Air Marshal was the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the South Western Air Command. 