Corruption evidence against Modi bullet-proof: Rahul Gandhi.
Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi could not deliver on his promise of causing "an earthquake" in Parliament by revealing the damaging information relating to "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal involvement in corruption", but he has assured his party MPs that he has "solid proof"."Read my lips. The Prime Minister is personally terrified with the information that I have. I have information on the personal corruption of the Prime Minister," Rahul told reporters on Wednesday.Rahul is reported to have told his MPs at a special briefing held in New Delhi last evening that he had done due diligence and the evidence available with him was unimpeachable.ALSO WATCH  To substantiate his claim of having the proof, the 46-year-old leader is reported to have used words like "bullet-proof" and "solid". He also told the MPs that the revelations will indeed cause an "earthquake".ALSO READ: Modi personally involved in corruption, terrified with information I have: Rahul RAHUL RAISES STAKESThough the Congress vice-president did not share the details of the information he had in his possession, he assured them that he had verified the information. "Whenever it becomes public, it will have the affect of a political earthquake," he is reported to have told his partymen.Rahul was interacting informally with his party MPs after an extensive two-hour briefing and question-and-answer session on demonetisation. He urged the MPs to fan out in their respective areas and highlight the problems being faced by the people following the banning of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes last month.ALSO READ: Why isn't Rahul Gandhi revealing what info he has on PM Modi: BJP, Kejriwal In his battle with Modi over demonetisation, Rahul has considerably raised the stakes by accusing him of corruption. Unless he comes out with credible proof, he could end up damaging his own credibility. He also runs the risk of people not taking him seriously.With Parliament now adjourned till Friday - the last day of the winter session - it's unlikely that Rahul will get a chance to speak on Friday. In the days ahead, the pressure is likely to mount on him to reveal to the public the evidence he has against Modi.