Modi should show his degree to me if it is genuine: Kejriwal.
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said today that the nation wants to know the educational qualifications of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the light of demonetisation.Speaking to mediapersons, Kejriwal questioned Modi's educational qualifications and said the latter was not well-educated. He alleged that demonetisation was a Rs 8,000 crore scam.Kejriwal alleged that Modi's reluctance to show his degrees raised suspicion about their authenticity. "Earlier, Modiji said he did not go to college. Later, he showed correspondence course degrees which were found to be fake," the Aam Aadmi Party leader said.He said, "If the degree is genuine, why is Modiji reluctant to show it Why is he hiding his degree"MODI LESS QUALIFIED: KEJRIWAL"Modi is less qualified. The nation has not been able to comprehend how a scam of this proportion took place," Kejriwal said.The Delhi CM said the people wished to know Modi's educational qualifications. He alleged that Modi's degree was fake. "Modi should show his degree to me if his degree is not fake," he said.Also read |  Why isn't Rahul Gandhi revealing what info he has on PM Modi: BJP, KejriwalHe reiterated that the people wanted to know whether Modi, who took the note ban decision, was qualified.The AAP leader added that people believe that Modi was not aware of the repercussions of demonetisation and now that there was chaos across the nation he doesn't want to roll it back."Today, there is a hearing in the Gujarat High Court about the degree issue. We want his lawyer to say in the court that they are ready to show Modiji's degree."DON'T WAIVE LOANS OF RICH  Kejriwal said Modi should not waive the loans of his rich friends. He demanded the PM to waive the loans of the farmers and small traders.Terming demonetisation a scam, Kejriwal has been demanding its roll back. However, the ruling BJP has outright rejected its demand saying it was not possible in any circumstances.The Delhi CM has raised the issue of Modi's educational qualification after a gap of several months. Earlier, in April, he had asked the Central Information Commission (CIC) to make public details Modi's educational qualification. He had requested the agency that information about PM's educational degrees should be brought in the public domain to eliminate any confusion over the issue.