Delhi cop attacked with chilli powder, bricks.
A constable was attacked with chilli powder and bricks when he tried to stop seven suspicious looking men in south west Delhi?s Bindapur area on Monday. The incident was captured on CCTV and police have identified the accused. Police officials said the incident took place around 3.45 am when constable Pawan and home guard Laxmi Narayan were on night duty in the area of Manas Kunj T point at Mangal Bazar road. They spotted at least seven men walking together in a group, going towards Uttam Nagar. The presence of so many men at such an odd hour alerted Pawan and he stopped them.In his complaint to the police, Pawan said that he became suspicious about them while enquiring them. He decided to question them further and so asked them to sit near a shop. The men agreed but one of them refused and began verbally abusing Pawan and Narayan.?Sensing that the men could attack them, Pawan took out his pistol, made a phone call to Bindapur police station and asked for back-up. While he was asking for more policemen to come to the spot, one of the men suddenly stood up and threw chilli powder in Pawan?s eyes,? said a senior police officer. Later, the men started hurling bricks at Pawan and Narayan. When the latter tried to restrain them, all of them forced him to the ground and threw more bricks at him. When a brick hit Narayan on the head, Pawan fired two times from his pistol. The men fled away from the spot, leaving behind an injured Narayan. A case under sections 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC was registered against unknown persons at Bindapur police station. Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Surender Kumar said that that based on CCTV footages, the accused persons have been identified and their locations traced. They will be nabbed soon, Kumar added. COPS ATTACKED AGAIN AND AGAIN1A policeman was allegedly stabbed in his stomach and thigh by a man after the victim and his colleague had gone to attend a PCR call of quarrel in South East Delhi?s Molarband area. The incident happened in the wee hours of November 1 after police received a call of a brawl taking place in Molarband?s Mohanbaba Nagar.2A head constable was allegedly beaten up, his uniform ripped off and the PCR van he was using damaged when he tried to stop two men from verbally abusing a victim in west Delhi?s Nilothi Extension on November 27.3 A gang of robbers fired and wounded a constable when two police cars blocked their vehicle in northwest Delhi?s Rohini area on August 21.4 Two brothers were arrested for allegedly attacking policemen who tried to stop them from creating nuisance after getting drunk in outer Delhi?s north Rohini. The incident occurred on September 13. 