I don't believe in playing sarcastic mind games: Virat Kohli.
Virat Kohli's maturity as a captain came to the fore on Monday as he made light of Jimmy Anderson's comments about his technique, urging the England veteran to "move on" but also made it clear that playing "sarcastic mind games" is not his cup of tea.He also said that Ravichandran Ashwin had told Anderson in no uncertain terms about the importance of "accepting defeat".Anderson in his post-match press conference yesterday had made an uncharitable comment that Kohli's technical deficiencies was not on display because the pitches in India lack pace and bounce. (Also read: Virat Kohli turns peacemaker to douse Ashwin-Anderson fire)This was after the Indian captain had decimated the England attack scoring 640 runs in four Tests. "I am no one or in no position to question someone else's technique or faults. They should understand it themselves and work on it. As international cricketers, it is their responsibility. So I am not going to sit here and play sarcastic mind games. I want to focus on good cricket and that is exactly what we have done."Kohli said India have always been graceful in defeat. (Also read: Virat Kohli takes a dig at England batsmen after James Anderson's controversial remark)"We focus on our strengths, we accept defeat pretty gracefully. We have never complained, we always find faults in our game and try to improve that. That is exactly what we keep doing in every game that we play."When Anderson came out to bat, Ashwin was seen talking to him and it was Kohli and the umpires who intervened.Asked about the incident, Kohli tried to douse the fire. (Also read: Mumbai Test: Virat Kohli 235, R Ashwin 12/167 give India historic series win over England)"It was the first time I was trying to calm things down at a time when Anderson involved. Ashwin was not pleased with whatever he had said in the press (yesterday). Ashwin told me on the ground, I had no clue about it. I was laughing about it, but Ashwin was not too impressed," Kohli told media persons."Ashwin let him know, not using bad words at all, I think he said he was pretty disappointed in what he said and it's important to accept defeat and things like that. You know how Ashwin is, to the point he can really strike you well without using bad words. That's exactly what happened. Later on, I told James these things happen and it's time to move on," Kohli showed that he is ready to put an end to the controversy.