World will be at Kohli's feet in a few years' time: Ganguly.
Former India captain Sourav Ganguly on Sunday hailed Virat Kohli's double hundred in the Mumbai Test and said that the future of Indian cricket rests on the shoulders of the Indian Test skipper. (SCORECARD | BALL-BY-BALL UPDATES)"The numbers can't get better than this. If you look at the stats as skipper 30 matches, 3000-plus runs at an average of 100. To have an average like that in 30 matches on a consistent basis is unreal. Hopefully he continues to bat like this. (Virat Kohli joins Bradman, Ponting in elite list after third double hundred in 2016)"I've said this before that when Virat Kohli plays you sit on the sofa and watch. Because you see a man who's passionate, you see a man who wants to win, you see a man who wants to take Indian cricket forward. Future of Indian cricket rests on Virat Kohli and if he continues like this his hunger, his want for runs, he's got a good head on his shoulders. The world will be at his feet in a few years' time," Ganguly told India Today in an exclusive chat. (Mumbai Test: India eye victory after Kohli's 235)Ganguly also praised Jayant Yadav, who struck his maiden Test hundred today and scored 104 runs in a 241-run partnership with Kohli for the eighth wicket. (Kohli made batting a lot easier, says Jayant Yadav)"Credit also needs to be given to Jayant Yadav and the way he batted. His technique looks so good. Yes you can say England didn't have the best spinners in the world and they were bowling one lose delivery every over but you still have to put those bad ball away and Jayant has done that consistently. What stands out for me is his technique, his defence against the turning ball and I though he played exceptionally well with the captain. (Virat Kohli gives Wankhede, that Tendulkar experience)"For a young boy in his third Test match to show so much of maturity really speaks terrific of his character," he said.Kohli, who was on 147 overnight, eventually fell on 235 to Chris Woakes but not before he put India in a position from where they could dictate terms against England. India posted 631 in their first innings, taking a lead of 231 runs. Spinners Ravindra Jadeja (2/58), Ravichandran Ashwin (2/49) and Jayant Yadav (1/39) then reduced England to 182/6 at the end of the day's play with the visitors still 49 runs behind the hosts.As is the custom these days, whenever Kohli comes out to bat he breaks  a plethora of records and today was no exception. Kohli's majestic knock saw him become the first Indian captain in Test history to score three double hundreds in a calendar year.The 28-year-old also went past Mahendra Singh Dhoni to post the highest score by an Indian captain in Test cricket. Dhoni had scored 224 runs against Australia in Chennai in 2013. Kohli now averages more than 50 in all three formats of the game and is the only player in the world at the moment to do so.The Delhi dasher is also the fifth batsman in the world after Michael Clarke (4), Don Bradman (3), Ricky Ponting (3) and Brendon McCullum (3) to score three double hundreds in a calendar year.What impressed the Ganguly the most today was the situation in which Kohli scored his runs.