Sasikala didn't allow Jaya to be close to her family: Niece.
 The late chief minister of Tamil Nadu, J Jayalalithaa never spoke about her family. She was in fact very secretive about who was family. The only one seen by her side everywhere was Sasikala Natarajan who as of today allegedly has all the power in her hands whether it is the party or the government.  Joining the controversy about who would own what of the late chief minister's property, cash and jewellery and now joining the controversy is Jayalalithaa's estranged younger sister's daughter Amrutha who lives in Kengeri on the outskirts of Bengaluru. "Whatever is there should be handed over to the government because Sasikala does not have any rights in this case. Let it be handed over to the government and this can be utilised for the people of Tamil Nadu," Amrutha said.She was extremely heartbroken when she was not allowed to visit her aunt while she was under treatment at the Apollo hospital in Chennai. "Thrice we went to the hospital to visit Jayalalithaa. When we went over there, the police said that she wasn't there and was being treated elsewhere," she said. Also Read FAMILY NOT INFORMEDAmrutha got the news of her aunt's death on television. She along with her family members rushed to Chennai but was denied permission to see Jayalalithaa's mortal remains.  "They kept avoiding us. It was a leader belonging to the DMK who took us to see her. It was difficult for him as well but he did his best," Amruttha said.Also Read: Jayalalithaa's house opens to public with lot of restrictions According to her estranged niece, it was only when an article was published in a local Tamil magazine in 2014, that Jayalalithaa didn't want her family to be known to the media. She said that, "Jayalalithaa did not want our relationship to come out in the open and not let the media know about this.' Things were different before, said Amruttha. "When she was not well she would speak about it on the phone. When she was feeling depressed she would tell me. She would cry on the phone," she said. "But at that moment if anyone entered the room she would remain silent, she would not speak but would cut the call. I used to always think that it was Sasikala who had entered the room. Then she would not call immediately but would wait for 3 days or a week to call back." Also Read: What exactly happened to Jayalalithaa We got this from doctors who know MEMORIESAmrutha recollected the time she spent at Poes Garden with late chief minister in 1996-1998. "I have had breakfast along with her but she really liked mango juice. She used to drink it early in the morning at 5," she said. "We have always said that we do not want any of her property. Even my mother used to always say that we do not want anything of hers but that Jayalalithaa acknowledged that she was her sister."