Sheena Bora murder accused demands laptop, dry fruit in jail.
Former media baron Peter Mukerjea wants to write his experience of his stay in jail and his version of Sheena Bora murder case.Peter Mukerjea aka Pratim Mukerjea has stated in a written application addressed to the special court in Mumbai that he was writing a book in long hand. Altogether Peter has written three applications to trial court seeking several relaxations while he is lodged in jail on the charges of conspiring murder of Sheena Bora, the daughter of his wife Indrani Mukerjea.  READ| Peter Mukerjea was misled by Indrani completely unbelievable, says Bombay High CourtPETER WANTS A LAPTOP Peter Mukherjea has sought the court's permission for a laptop as it was getting difficult for him to pen down the manuscript.In his application, Peter requested the court to allow him use "a laptop without internet connection for four hours daily, which the jail authorities can then keep in their safe custody for rest of the time."WATCH:READ| Tabu to play Indrani Mukerjea in film adaptation of Sheena Bora murder casePeter said that he would not need the laptop for more than eight weeks, after which it would be handed over to his family.Peter pleaded that he was 61-year-old and suffered from occasional memory fatigue. A computer would be of great help, Peter said.Addressing the court he said, "Your honour my first choice is a laptop and if not then an electronic typewriter and if not then I will sit in office of jail officials and write it if the officials are ok with it." ALSO DEMANDS DRY FRUITSIn another application, Peter has asked for dry fruits and other readymade food items for munching on Tuesdays and Saturdays, when he keeps fast. Among his demands is included a shaving kit. WATCH: In yet another application, Peter Mukerjea wishes to travel to Bengaluru to perform 'kanyadaan' of his niece as his sister's husband is no more. He reasoned out that he was the eldest in the family and it was his social duty to perform these rituals. Meanwhile, CBI advocate Kavita Patil has objected to his demands terming them against jail manual. She is likely file a written reply in the court during the next hearing.