Mamata offers job to kin of man who died in bank queue.
Demonetisation politics seem to have gone one notch higher, at least in West Bengal.Moving one step ahead in voicing her protest, Mamata Banerjee, Chief Minister of West Bengal had sent a list of around 90 people who have lost their lives in the virtual struggle against demonetisation.In another attempt to register her protest against the demonetisation drive and to stand by the families of the people who have lost their lives in the ripple effect of demonetisation, she announced a government job for the bereaved family of one of them.Mamata Banerjee, announced compensation for the family of Kallol Roychoudhury, the 45-year-old who died of a stroke in Bandel, while queuing up to withdraw money from an ATM.A representative of the government was sent to inform the family at their Behala residence, that the post held by late Kallol Roychoudhury, state government employee would now be held by his wife, Seema Roychoudhury.Also read:Demonetisation a mammoth tragedy: Manmohan Singh"After Kallol's death due to stroke, I visited the family of the victim and told them that the post held by the late Kallol Roychoudhury will now be held by his wife, Seema Roychoudhury. We have all come to convey the message to his wife. They are very happy with the news," said Partha Sarkar, the personal assistant to the Education Minister, Partha Chatterjee.The family, especially Seema Roychoudhury, was very relieved with the decision."After the CM's announcement, Partha Sarkar came and said that my job has been approved and I am very happy about it. The CM was standing with me and supported me all the way, and that is what makes me happy. What she has done for us, is of utmost importance. I have to start another chapter of my life and fight this battle all on my own. I have to nurture my child all by myself which is a huge responsibility. My husband has left our side with so much responsibility on me," said Seema, with a lump in her throat.Also read:Supreme Court asks 9 questions from government over demonetisation The family was relaxed after hearing the announcement and expressed their gratitude for the Chief Minister.Swapan Roychoudhury, the elder brother of Kallol Roychoudhury, said that he is happy and grieved, all at once."I am very much grateful the government which has stood by our side and helped us in such unfavourable times, sped up the process. We hope we will be able to survive on what has been provided. I am ever thankful for having a CM like Mamata Banerjee. We can't thank her enough. Her kindness is exemplified by her actions. Not even one week has passed, but all arrangements for the future of the family has been made. From the local councillor to Mr Partha Chatterjee, the government in the form of Mamata Banerjee has been very supportive," said Swapan.The decision was promptly welcomed by the family and they are now trying to bring normalcy back into their lives, while the politics behind the drive intensifies to a new level.