Delhi Development Authority to come up with 13k flats in Jan.
Delhi Development Authority?s 2016 housing scheme, offering 13,000 flats in the Capital, which was expected to roll out around Diwali will now be launched by January 26.The scheme was given the final approval in November but the exact date for its launch has not been disclosed. The date for the launch, which has been delayed by at least two months, was further pushed because of the Centre?s demonetisation drive. A senior DDA official said buyers will get nearly a month to complete the formalities and submit applications. ?The scrutiny of application forms may take another month. So, the draw can be held in the first week of April. The agency may start giving possession around July-September after completing unfinished civil work and services in the colonies,? he said.The official added that the agency has also set up a committee comprising chief engineers of respective districts to look into reports on the lack of infrastructure and poor civil work in flats.Read: DDA finalises housing scheme, launch date on hold due to cash chaosSources in DDA said that during a recent meeting, issues of poor approach roads, non-availability of water, and lack of other services were also discussed after which a panel was appointed to find out solutions to these problems.?It was a matter of concern that at a location, the nearest milk booth was situated around six kilometres away. All these aspects are being looked into. A survey is being conducted and before allotment, these issues will be addressed,? a senior official said..house_wrap {width:auto; padding:10px; border:solid thin #CCC; font-family:"Open Sans"; font-size:110%}.house_headline {width:auto; font-family:"Open Sans"; margin-bottom:1px; font-size:150%}.house_headline2 {width:98%; font-family:"Open Sans"; margin-bottom:1px; font-size:110%; background-color:#bda632; padding:5px}.house_normal ul {list-style:url(http://www.hindustantimes.com/static/ht2016/10/bulletbrown1.png); width:auto; margin:10px}.house_box1 {width:auto; padding:5px; font-family:"Open Sans"; background-color:#ede4b6}.house_boxB {width:auto; padding:5px; font-family:"Open Sans"; background-color:#fcd2c1}.house_box2 {width:auto; padding:5px; font-family:"Open Sans"; background-color:#E5E5E5}.house_underline {width:auto; border-bottom:dotted thin #666; margin:5px}.clrboth {clear:both}NEW YEAR?S HOUSING BONANZAHere?s what the land owning agency is offering in different parts of Delhi under the scheme, whose launch date has not been announced due to the demonetisation drive WHAT YOU MAY HAVE TO PAY UNDER DIFFERENT CATEGORIESFAQsHow much does the brochure cost? Cost of the brochure for last scheme was Rs 150. If you download it online, you will have to pay the amount at the time of submission.How can my bank help? You can apply at the banks that tie up with DDA. 13 banks had tied up last time.Do I need ID proof? All you need is a photocopy of your PAN card. Am I eligible? Any Indian citizen, 18 years of age and above can apply. However, you are not eligible to apply if you already own a flat or plot in your or your spouse/child?s name in Delhi. How many times can I apply? A person can only apply once each year. If I?m applying can my husband/wife also apply? Yes, both of you can apply separately. However, if both of you are allotted flats, only one can be retained.?The agency is waiting for the study report by the committee. The flats will be handed over only after fixing these problems,? he added.The flats are located in various colonies across the city such as Sarita Vihar, Jasola, Dwarka, Pitampura, Sukhdev Vihar, Narela, Rohini, Jehangirpuri, Loknayakpuram, Dilshad Garden, Paschim Vihar, Bindapur and Mukherjee Nagar.The flats, all of which are old construction, under different categories will be available for the draw. A majority of the flats are one bedroom, hall and kitchen (1 BHK) that were either surrendered or cancelled under the 2014 scheme.Read: Why you shouldn?t worry if you haven?t got a flat in DDA drawA total of 11,544 flats were surrendered or allotments cancelled and about 11,000 belong to Lower Income Group Flats (LIG) category.A senior DDA official said the cost of these units will remain the same as it was in 2014. This time, the authority has done away with a few rules considering the interest of homebuyers with ?freehold allotment? and ?five-year lock-in?, during which the flat could not be sold by the allottee, being crucial. The lock-in period was one of the main reasons because of which flats offered under the last scheme were surrendered. 