Shiv Sena's Mumbai corporator proposes menstrual leave.
 Even as the debate over menstrual leave is causing a stir in the country, a Shiv Sena corporator wants it to be made mandatory. The corporator, Sheetal Mhatre, tabled a proposal in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), demanding that government, semi-government and private organisations grant leave to women employees on the first day of their periods. Mhatres notice of motion is likely to be discussed in the general body meeting next month. All 227 corporators pass resolutions moved in the general body meeting with consensus. If passed, the proposal will be sent to the municipal commissioner for his reply followed by the state government. Talking about her proposal, Mhatre said, Working women are under tremendous stress these days. In the olden days, women were asked to step away from her normal duties, but with nuclear families today that is also not possible. She added, While we are equal to men, we must also respect the fact that we are physically different. Women undergo many hormonal changes that become difficult to cope with. Taking a cue from countries such as Japan and Italy, an organisation based in Mumbai recently decided to  give off on the women an option to take off on the a paid leave on the first day of their period. The issue has caused a stir on social media with many objecting to the so-called privileged leave. Experts from Akshara, a non-government organisation working for equal rights for women, however said that the proposal was not a great idea. Dr Nandita Shah, co-director at Akshara, said, Treating menstruation as a sickness is not right. Women have already proved that they can work even during their periods. If it is a discomfort for some women at times, it can treated as normal sick leave. Shah also said that with menstrual leave becoming compulsory, employers will not be interested in hiring women.READ Whats the fuss around #FOP Plenty, as India wakes up to the period leave policyMaharashtra launches free injectable contraceptive for women