Theme-based art to decorate upcoming Delhi Metro stations.
Delhi Metro?s upcoming Magenta line will be a visual treat for commuters as artwork will adorn four stations ?Jamia Millia Islamia, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and Terminal 1D of Indira Gandhi International Airport. Taking a cue from the Heritage Line, the theme of the artwork on these stations on the Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden corridor will be based on the salient features of the neighbourhoods. For instance, the artwork at Jamia Millia Islamia will depict photos of the values of the university, education, art and learning. The Magenta line will connect education hubs such as Jamia Milia Islamia and IIT-Delhi. The line is likely to be operational by September. Battling land acquisition issues, the project had missed its December 2016 deadline. The corridors of IIT will be decorated with artefacts depicting the struggle of students in coping up with the ever-changing technologies.The corridors of IIT will be decorated with artefacts depicting the struggle of students in coping with new technologies.At the Kalkaji station, the walls will be decorated with paintings and artefacts of the Lotus and ISKCON temples. The one at IGI airport will showcase Delhi?s hilly areas and the national bird, peacock, said a senior official of Delhi metro. ?The theme of mountain and peacock was chosen for the airport station because it is near the ridge area,? he said. Stations on the short 5.17-km Heritage line also has three-dimensional (3D) panels that depict the glory of the bygone era at the Delhi Gate, Jama Masjid, Lal Quila and Kashmere Gate stations. The life-size artwork and walls decorated with paintings showcasing India?s history during the Mughal era was were well received by commuters. So the metro has decided to carry forward the concept in other stations also, he said. Other stations such as INA, Govindpuri, Green Park and Jangpura, also have artworks on the walls.?Having tied up with various government bodies/organisations such as the National Book Trust, Delhi Tourism, Sahitya Akademi, India Habitat Centre and the textile ministry, DMRC is enhancing the overall commuting experience,? he said.At the Kalkaji station, the walls will be decorated with paintings and artefacts of the Lotus and ISKCON temples. Trials between Botanical Garden in Noida and Kalkaji Mandir (13 kilometres) in Delhi had started on October 27 last year while dummy runs between Terminal 1-IGI airport and Janakpuri west (10KM) began on December 21. This section from Botanical Garden till Kalkaji Mandir, which will be opened in next two months, consists of nine elevated stations ? Botanical Garden, Okhla Bird sanctuary, Kalindi Kunj, Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh, Okhla Vihar, Jamia Milia Islamia, Sukhdev Vihar, Okhla NSIC and Kalkaji Mandir. Work on all stations has been completed and finishing activity is in progress.