Dangal's Dhaakad video was a gift for Aamir: Chinese fan.
If the roaring success of Aamir Khan?s Dangal in China ? the film has made more than Rs 1,000 crore in that country ? wasn?t proof enough of how much the Chinese love the Bollywood star and his latest film, here is some more proof: a video made by Aamir?s Chinese fan club based on the hit song Dhaakad from Dangal.The video, uploaded by Aamir Khan FC?China, hit the Internet on July 5 and crossed 2,50,000 views within days of being uploaded. The video shows various groups of superfans from across China dancing to Dhaakad. So, what inspired this fan video? We chatted with Wenjing Zhang aka Viki from the fan club, who explained that it was made as a gift for Aamir Khan for his great movie and unmatched acting prowess in it. ?Aamirji?s PK?(2014) grossed over 100 crore [rupees] in China, so we were expecting Dangal to at least earn double. But then, the movie made 1,300 crore here, which was a complete surprise. We were really excited as fans and decided to make something as a gift or a memento for him. And, that is how we came up with the idea of a video,? says Viki.Chinese fan Wenjing Zhang aka Viki with her idol, actor Aamir Khan.The Chinese were moved by the film?s family ties. A lot of Chinese kids are pushed by their parents to learn things that they don?t really like when they are small, but when they grow up, they realise that the parents were right in doing so. I guess, many people could relate to that feeling, too ? Wenjing Zhang aka VikiShe further explained that it was the social position of the girls in the movie and the portrayal of family bonds that made the movie so relatable for viewers in China.?The Chinese were moved by the film?s family ties. A lot of Chinese kids are pushed by their parents to learn things that they don?t really like when they are small, but when they grow up, they realise that the parents were right in doing so. I guess, many people could relate to that feeling, too,? says Viki. ?We chose the song Dhaakad, because Aamirji has sung it (the actor has made his own video version, which is not seen in the film), and he is really cool in the movie, too.? The fan video required quite a lot of teamwork. Viki says, ?Five teams from Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Guangzhou, and Xi?an shot individual videos, which were later compiled into one by me. The teams from Beijing, Shanghai, and Chengdu had even met Aamir sir, when he had come for promotions,? she adds.What really went into the making of the video, you ask? Viki says that none of the team members are actually dancers. They simply planned the video within a week?s time, shot it in two days and then compiled it all together. ?We chose moves like Aamirji and a few that would give the feel of the movie (like imitating some of the scenes where two wrestlers face each other). The video was shot at major landmarks such as Guangzhou Circle (a round building), Temple of Heaven in Beijing, Shanghai World Expo, National Museum of China, and Great Wild Goose Pagoda in Xi?an. The pagoda in Xi?an was also chosen because it has a connection with India, too,? she says.The Great Wild Goose Pagoda in Xi?an, one of the places where the fan video was shot.Meeting Aamir Khan himself during the promotional tour was a dream come true for Viki. She says that she felt really lucky to have met the star in person and found him to be a great human being. Viki, along with her team, also decided to translate Satyamev Jayate (a show hosted by Aamir Khan) and even got his approval for it. ?We love his show and wanted to share his thoughts with more people. We told him about our plan to translate it for the Chinese people and he actually took out time to reply to us. He wanted us to finish it and to do a good job with it. I want him to know that we have now completed the translation and there is no mistake in it. His Chinese fans  love it,? she says.     Watch the original video here:Follow @htshowbiz for more.