Venkaiah Naidu declared NDA's candidate for Vice President.
Senior BJP leader and union minister M Venkaiah Naidu was today picked as NDA's vice presidential nominee.The decision was taken at BJP's parliamentary board meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi this evening. Besides Naidu, names of Maharashtra Governor C Vidyasagar Rao and O Rajagopal were doing the rounds as probables for the coveted post.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Amit Shah said the decision in favour of Venkaiah Naidu was consensus at the party meeting. For the August 5 vice presidential elections, Naidu will file his papers tomorrow as it is the last date for making nominations.With the ruling NDA backing him firmly, 68-year-old Naidu's victory seems easy.A BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan, Naidu is a Minister for Urban Development, Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, and Information and Broadcasting. The former BJP president has been pitted against former West Bengal Governor, diplomat and scholar Gopalkrishna Gandhi whose name has been finalised by an alliance of 18 opposition parties.Incumbent Vice President Hamid Ansari's term ends on August 10.The electoral college for the election consists of 790 MPs of the two Houses of Parliament.The ruling bloc enjoys an overwhelming majority in the electoral college and BJP has expressed confidence about garnering anywhere between 500 and 550 votes. Describing him as a fitting candidate for the office of Vice President, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he has always admired Naidu for his hardwork and tenacity.I know @MVenkaiahNaidu Garu for years. Have always admired his hardwork & tenacity. A fitting candidate for the office of Vice President. A farmerâs son, @MVenkaiahNaidu Garu brings years of experience in public life and is admired across the political spectrum.The years of Parliamentary experience @MVenkaiahNaidu Garu has will help him discharge the important role of Rajya Sabha Chairperson. Born in Andhra Pradesh's Chavatapalem, Venkaiah Naidu had started his political career as students' union leader from VR College, Nellore.After winning an Assembly seat in Andhra Pradesh in 1978, Naidu rose to the ranks in the party and remained the general secretary of BJP from 1993-2000. Two years later, he was promoted as BJP's national president.In June 2016, Naidu was re-elected to Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan for a fourth term.Known to have his way with words, the BJP veteran is famous for his one-liners. The urban development ministry, under which the Narendra Modi's pet project of Smart Cities is being executed, made him more close to the prime minister.Also read:5 reasons why Venkaiah Naidu may be BJP's pick for Vice-PresidentVice-Presidential election: Bitter rivals TMC, Left united on support for Gopalkrishna Gandhi Vice-Presidential election dates announced: Polling, result on August 5ALSO WATCH: Gopalkrishna Gandhi to India Today: Not seeking votes as a Gandhi descendant