Jolly LLB 2 actor suffering from cancer seeks financial help.
Bollywood actor Sitaram Panchal, who has worked with Akshay Kumar  (Jolly LLB 2), Irrfan Khan (Paan Singh Tomar) and several other A-listers of the industry, is facing the worst crisis of his life.  A photo of Sitaram Panchal at his Mumbai residence. This was posted by Rajeev Bhatia - a Hisar resident who is also Sitaram?s junior from their theatre days.
							(Facebook/Rajeev Bhatia)
						Sitaram has been fighting cancer for the past three years, and now his condition has worsened. Speaking to HT, the actor?s wife confirmed his condition and said he?s been bed-ridden for the past 10 months. ?Initially, he used to work and we could make ends meet. But now, he does not even have the strength to stand up. He has lost a lot of weight.  Ever since the cancer was detected in January 2014, he has taken Ayurvedic treatment. It was only recently that he started a new Homeopathic medicine, following which, his condition worsened and we discontinued the medicines,? she said. Sitaram has written a Facebook post seeking help from fans and well-wishers. ?Bhaio meri help karo meri cancer se halat kharab hoti ja rahi hai apka kalakar bhai sitaram panchal,? he wrote on Monday.The Facebook page for Cine & TV Artistes Association  (CINTAA) also posted late Sunday about Sitaram?s condition, seeking help from well wishers. Panchal is suffering from kidney and lung cancer and is also facing financial crisis.Several actors have come forward seeking help on Facebook for the actor. Asked if CINTAA and Sitaram?s fellow actors have been helpful, Uma said that friends have been helping over the years but not many knew about his cancer. With the recent Facebook post by Sitaram and CINTAA, several people have contributed, she added.?We hope some big filmmaker will come forward and help us,? she concluded.A fund raiser has also been created for the cause.Sitaram has also worked in Bandit Queen, Slumdog Millionnaire, Peepli Live and The Legend of Bhagat Singh. Follow @htshowbiz for more