DIG Roopa who exposed VIP treatment to Sasikala transferred.
The Karnataka government transferred on Monday deputy inspector general of prisons Roopa D Moudgil, who had recently alleged that AIADMK leader VK Sasikala received preferential treatment in Bengaluru Central Prison by paying a bribe. Moudgil was transferred to the position of inspector general of police and commissioner for traffic and road safety, Bengaluru. In her controversial report, Moudgil had said she heard allegations that a bribe of Rs 2 crore had been paid by Sasikala to senior prison officials, including director central of prisons HN Satyanarayana Rao, for getting privileged treatment, which, among other things, including a private kitchen. Rao, too, has been transferred, but without charge, as he is set to retire at the end of the month. NS Megharikh was posted as the additional director general of prisons. He was ADGP, anti-corruption bureau, earlier.Krishna Kumar, the superintendent of Bengaluru central prison, has also been transferredThese are administrative issues, chief minister Siddaramaiah said. The government said the transfers were ordered to ensure a fair probe. Siddaramaiah had announced on Friday that the investigation into the allegations will be headed by retired IAS officer Vinay Kumar. The preliminary report is to be submitted in a week. In a statement, the government clarified on Monday that the transfers were ordered to maintain the sanctity of the inquiry process and safeguard it from further interference.The state also criticised both Moudgil and Rao for speaking to the media. Despite the inquiry being in process, the [DIG] and her senior [DGP] went to the media to discuss the case, the government said.The interaction of both police officers with the media during the course of inquiry was unwarranted, and amounted to a serious violation of the All India Services Conduct Rules, the government said.Meanwhile, opposition parties opposed the move. Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former CM HD Kumaraswamy said he feared the probe will not be effective.  By transferring the person who revealed the controversy, the government is sending out a message that they will sideline it, Kumaraswamy claimed. Suresh Kumar of the Bharatiya Janata Party called for a judicial inquiry. Considering the nature of the allegations, a judicial probe headed by a retired judge of the high court is needed, the BJP leader said. 