Jodie becomes first woman to play lead role in Doctor Who.
Finally, the big moment for Doctor Who fans has arrived. The identity of the 13th Time Lord has been revealed, and it?s a big surprise.For the first time in 54 years, the role is going to be played by a woman. Meet the Thirteenth Doctor #DoctorWho #Doctor13 pic.twitter.com/wycdcneZ7o? BBC One (@BBCOne) July 16, 201734-year-old English actor Jodie Whittaker, who impressed everyone with her act in shows like Broadchurch and Adult Life Skills, is going to save the humanity from dangers beyond our world.?I always knew I wanted the Thirteenth Doctor to be a woman and we?re thrilled to have secured our number one choice. Her audition for The Doctor simply blew us all away. Jodie is an in-demand, funny, inspiring, super-smart force of nature and will bring loads of wit, strength and warmth to the role,? said Chris Chibnall, the show?s new Head Writer and Executive Producer.Whittaker said it was ?completely overwhelming? to be taking on the role and she wanted to tell fans of the series ?not to be scared? by her gender. ?As an actor, as a human, as someone who wants to continually push themselves and challenge themselves, and not be boxed in by what you?re told you can and can?t be. It feels incredible,? she said.?This is a really exciting time, and Doctor Who represents everything that?s exciting about change. The fans have lived through so many changes, and this is only a new, different one, not a fearful one,? she added.The Doctor, who travels through time in what from the outside appears to be a blue police telephone box, has the ability to regenerate, allowing a number of actors to play the role since the series was first broadcast in 1963.For the uninitiated, the BBC series that was first aired in 1963, is about an extraterrestrial being from a planet called Gallifrey. Technologically efficient, the Time Lord keeps a watch on the world from his, her in Jodie?s case, spaceship named Tardis.Peter Capaldi?s, who played the 12th Time Lord, successor was declared after the Wimbledon Men?s Finale.The airing date of the next season hasn?t been announced yet.(With Reuters inputs)