Activist alleges cop threatened to kill her in encounter.
A man claiming to be a sub-inspector with the Delhi Police allegedly threatened to kill social activist Shabnam Hashmi in an encounter when she called him over phone to find out about a case involving an auto driver.The man, who identified himself as Sandip Malik and claimed to be posted at Lajpat Nagar police station, also allegedly said that an initiative to ?surround and kill?(Ghero aur Maaro) had been launched against those who did not have an Aadhaar card or other identity proof.Hashmi disconnected the call and installed a call recorder on her phone before resuming the conversation. Much of those threats were recorded and submitted to the Delhi Police commissioner on Saturday even as she awaited response on any action taken.When questioned about the allegations, Romil Baaniya, DCP (south-east), said no sub-inspector by the name Sandip Malik is posted at Lajpat Nagar police station. ?There is a constable by the same name though, but he does not use the phone number in question,? said the DCP.Since Hashmi?s complaint was addressed to the commissioner, Baaniya said he was yet to receive her complaint and the audio recording and that he got to know of the allegations only through media reports.?Once we have the audio recording, we will get it verified. In case the audio reveals any offence, we will pursue legal action,? said the DCP, adding that Truecaller, a mobile application used to check the caller?s identity, showed the phone number to be belonging to one Ashish Kumar. ?The phone owner is not taking the call, but we will reach the person soon,? he said.Human rights activist Hashmi is associated with Pehchaan, a voluntary organisation that imparts skills and education to girls who drop out of school. The first call from the accused policeman was received on Friday night by one of her former students? husband, an auto driver. ?The caller claimed to be SI Sandip Malik and ordered this man to immediately visit Lajpat Nagar police station. He was threatened that he will be beaten up if he switched off his phone and not informed what the case was about,? alleged Hashmi.When Hashmi heard this, she decided to call the policeman and enquire about the case. She claimed that she was bombarded with vulgar abuses. ?I told the policeman I was a social worker, but he demanded my identity proof, Aadhaar card details and names of all girls who are trained at my organisation,? said Hashmi.Hashmi immediately disconnected the call and downloaded a call recorder even as the person at the other kept calling her. But when the fresh round of conversations resumed, the policeman avoided using expletives as he appeared to be aware that the recording going on.?Among several threats, the man also claimed that a ?surround and kill? campaign to kill those without Aadhaar cards or any identity proofs is being carried out by the instructions from the top and these instructions have been passed on to every police station,? alleged Hashmi.