Gurugram building bans use of plastic bags on its premises.
To protect the environment, Uniworld Garden, an upscale condominium in Sector 47 on Sohna Road has banned the use of plastic bags on its premises. The rule will come into effect from July 17 and the residents welfare association (RWA) will ensure that the ban is enforced.On a notice board at the condominium, information has been shared regarding the ban and residents have been advised to carry cloth bags while out shopping for groceries or vegetables.This ban has been imposed under the Environment Protection Act 1986, sector 15 (1). The notice put up at the condominium states, The shopkeepers (on the condominium premises) have been instructed to remove polythene bags at their shops. Selling and keeping plastic is punishable offence with imprisonment of up to 5 years or fine up to 1 lakh and in case it continues a fine of 10,000 per day may be levied (sic).Residents welcomed the move saying it will motivate others to shun plastic bags.LN Tara, a Uniworld resident, said, The ban on plastic is a good initiative and it has the support of all residents. I have been carrying my own bag  for shopping.Mohan, a shopkeeper at the condominium, said, I am aware of the ban and will adhere to it.The Union ministry of environment and forests had banned the manufacture, sale and use of plastic bags. Though the ban has been in force for the last six years, compliance on the ground leaves a lot to be desired, environmentalists said.The ban on plastic bags could only become effective if residents are made aware of the harmful effects associated with its use. The notice was put up after the RWA and residents reached an understanding on the issue, SS Oberoi, environment activist and a resident of the society, said.On April 1, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board had launched a plastic-free city campaign.Similarly, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) launched its maiden initiative to rid Gurgaon of polythene bags in February. Under the initiative, the civic body had conducted an awareness drive at the Sector 56 Huda market.The MCG had conducted a raid in August 2015, in DLF Phase 1, Sector 10 and Sector 56 and seized around 100 kg polythene bags. A fine of 25,000 was imposed on some shop owners. As many as 16 challans were issued in DLF Phase 1 and Sector 56 and another six in Sector 10.