Go, meet voters: Amit Shah to Delhi BJP leaders.
If the Delhi BJP leaders thought they enjoyed the pleasure of the central leadership after the emphatic victory in MCD elections, an utterly rude shock awaited them.Upset with the lax attitude of Delhi BJP leaders and bickering within the state party unit, the party's national president Amit Shah on Friday took them to task and noted that the party leaders spent more time meeting the top leaders than reaching out to the common people.In a meeting with Delhi BJP office bearers on day one of his Delhi pravaas, Shah also set a target of securing 51 per cent votes in the next assembly polls. He expressed displeasure over the state of affairs in Delhi unit after several leaders came out in open alleging the current leadership has failed to follow the policies of the party and that favourites of Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari got the key posts.The BJP president was meeting Delhi BJP leaders at the NDMC convention centre in the national Capital. The meetings would continue on Saturday at Delhi BJP headquarters. This is the first ever brainstorming session of Amit Shah with Delhi BJP leaders."A majority of leaders in Delhi are not working hard enough. All they are doing is making efforts to meet and please Amit Shah, Ramlal and Arun Jaitley. No one is spending time to meet the common people," Shah was quoted as saying by a BJP leader who was present in the meeting.Sources said he was also unhappy with the haphazardly executed vistarak program in Delhi. According to Delhi BJP, only 60 per cent of over 13,000 booths in Delhi were covered. Also the party was far behind the target of adding 1.5 lakh new members to the party.Even after a BJP leader present in the meeting told Shah that the party would get 41 per cent votes in a triangular fight in Delhi if elections were held immediately, Shah - who had a target of 51 per cent in Delhi- was not convinced. The leaders gave a detailed presentation on the voting pattern, caste equations and demographic division in the Capital and also the factors that led to BJP's successive defeats in elections. Shah also directed the state leadership to improve its presence at the booth level to strike good rapport with the voters.During the meeting, some among the party leaders also cited lack of coordination between office bearers and the subordinates. Taking strong note of this, Shah directed Delhi BJP general secretary Kuljeet Chahal to put before him all communication sent from the central office ever since he became the BJP president in August 2014.He also took note of the complaints that the communications from central leadership was not circulated to party workers at the district and block levels.An action report has been sought regarding all communications on Saturday.