Mukerjea accused of using children as shields in jail riot.
Indrani Mukerjea, jailed former media baron, along with other woman inmates at Byculla jail, have been accused of using children as shields against lathi charge during the protests on June 24 after 38-year-old Manjula Shetye was allegedly murdered by six jail officials. Based on news reports, the Maharashtra Commission for Protection of Child rights (MCPCR) formed a six-member committee that visited the jail on Saturday around 12 noon, and spoke to children of inmates as well as their mothers. The officials questioned the inmates accused of using children as human shields, including Mukerjea, who is the prime accused for the murder of her daughter.Pravin Ghughe, chairperson of MCPCR, said, We spoke with every person involved during the riot, and inquired whether they used children as a human shield. We even had a word with the jail officials as a part of our inquiry. According to a source, MCPCR officials will be submitting a detailed report about the incident to the woman and child ministry of the Maharashtra Government. In addition, MCPCR officials would also be putting forth certain recommendations on the basis of their visit, for the betterment of development of the children in the jail.There are 285 woman inmates at Byculla Jail and 17 children below the age of six live with their mothers in the same barracks with other inmates. We would recommend that inmates who have to live with their children should be kept in a separate barrack all together, so that the children arent affected mentally and do not develop criminal minds, said Ghughe. Mukerjea, along with 200 inmates, have been booked under the sections of rioting and mischief by fire. As after the news of Shetyes death broke out, the woman inmates rose in protest. The inmates damaged jail property and as a mark of protest, they even went up to the prison roof and burnt clothes and newspapers. ReadMumbai jail inmate murder: Jail officials remanded in 14-day judicial custody 