Akhilesh is Aurangzeb, Mulayam is Shah Jahan: Amar Singh.
Amar Singh, the name once synonymous with Samajwadi Party, has lashed out at its President and former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav after two SP leaders quit the UP Legislative Council. In an exclusive conversation with India Today, the party's former general secretary, Amar Singh, said that the Samajwadi Party has a dark future without its leader, Mulayam Singh Yadav.  Amar Singh was dismissed from the SP just ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election as the Yadav clan was embroiled in a bitter tussle to control the party. He claims to have snapped all ties with his political mentor.Reacting to the exit of two party legislators from the UP Upper House, Amar Singh said,"I am not happy at what's happening to the party which I raised with so much hard work and I am also not responding to any calls from Mulayam Singh Yadav since I was ousted twice from the Samajwadi Party and humiliated."He says, "Samajwadi Party is gone with the wind. It's a quick sand, so the exit of leaders is understood." "Samajwadi Party has become a regional party from once a national party for which Mulayam Singh Yadav and I had worked so hard," he adds.He says, "Akhilesh Yadav is Aurangzeb, power has gone into his head and Mulayam Singh Yadav is like Shahjahan." Recalling how Mughal emperor Aurangzeb had held his father Shahjahan captive during tussle for the throne. "Akhilesh is to be solely blamed for what is happening . One who cannot honour his father loses trust of people as well," Singh added. "Where have all those supporters of Akhilesh disappeared who used to chant slogans for him and call me names" Recalling the good old days of the party, Amar Singh said, "Despite Mulayam Singh's opposition, I was the one who supported Akhilesh who wanted to marry out of his caste, but I was humiliated and thrown out. He couldn't handle power."Asked to comment on the latest development in Bihar, Amar Singh heaped praise on Prime Minister Modi. "This is Narendra Modi's victory that Nitish Kumar who once broke off from him is now joining hands with him, even Ram Vilas Paswan who once resigned is standing with him and America which denied him visa is welcoming him," he said. "Secularism has become a farce. Everyone is using it as per convenience.' "Today, there is 67 per cent BJP in the country, I have also worn saffron, no body can ignore this colour," he quipped, showing off his saffron kurta.ALSO READ:Amit Shah in Lucknow: 2 Samajwadi MLCs quit, 3 MLAs 'waiting' to join BJP