If my film flops, I talk, cry, get over it, move on: Vidya.
Actor Vidya Balan has made a strong footing in Bollywood with the kind of roles she has portrayed so far. While films such as Paa (2009), The Dirty Picture (2011), and Kahaani (2012) worked wonders and won her critical acclaim, there have been lull days at the box office when films such as Bobby Jasoos (2014), Kahaani 2 (2016) and Begum Jaan failed to make an impact.Does it bother Vidya? ?It?s heartbreaking when a film doesn?t work after you have put in so much in it. It definitely disappoints you. But I feel that all actors go through hits and flops, it never makes me question myself,? says Vidya, adding that she doesn?t care about others? opinions as  ?everyone is entitled to an opinion?.    Begum aur unki Jaan!! #14thApril #2DaysToGo A post shared by Vidya Balan (@balanvidya) on Apr 12, 2017 at 3:03am PDT Unlike several other actors who get bogged down after a film?s failure, Vidya says she?s not one of those who would run away or lock herself in a room and not talk to anyone. ?I need to talk. Mujhe toh baat karna bahut jaruri hai? main batooni jo hoon. So, I talk to my parents and my husband, Siddharth (Roy Kapoor). If my film flops, I talk, cry, get over it and move on,? adds Vidya.When I am on a film set, I never think of whether my last film was a hit or not. Will this one work or not? I am just invested and committed.The 38-year old doesn?t believe in carrying the burden of a flop film when she has started working on another project. She explains, ?When I am on a film set, I never think of whether my last film was a hit or not. Will this one work or not? I am just invested and committed, and surrender to what I am doing because that?s what I love the most. I?m living my dream of being an actor and I?m the happiest when I?m on a film set.?Asked if she considers awards to be a validation of good work, Vidya says they are only ?an added bonus?. She says, ?For me, most important [thing] is that I should be happy with what I?m doing. Then of course you want your work to be loved by audiences, so these awards are a cherry on the cake.?Follow @htshowbiz for more