Fake 'CBI' men steal jewellery worth ?20L in Delhi.
It started like any other day at jeweller Nawal Kishore Khandelwal?s home in central Delhi?s Karol Bagh; he and his two sons left for their shop in Chandni Chowk, the women worked through morning chores and as they settled in for the afternoon, a man in khaki and five masked men rang the bell. ?My wife opened the door and the man identified himself as a CBI official. Five more men who were with him told her that they had come to raid the house. Before my wife could understand anything, the men pushed her inside,? said Khandelwal.For the next 10 minutes ? shortly after 1.30pm ? the suspects held a gun to Khandelawal?s four-year-old grandson Divyansh as they rummaged through the house before escaping with gold and diamond jewellery worth around Rs 20 lakh. The police said the incident, which took place on Wednesday, was the first time robbers had posed as police officers to carry out an armed robbery in a home in the middle of the day.Mandeep Singh Randhawa, the deputy commissioner of police (central), said a case of robbery and theft has been registered but the suspects are yet to be identified. ?One of them put a pistol to Divyansh?s head and threatened to kill him if anybody screamed for help or raised an alarm,? said the 61-year-old jewellery Besides Khandelwal?s wife Urmila and the child, the robbers held his daughter-in-law Megha hostage. One of the men took the keys to a locker from Megha and he ransacked the locker. The hold-up would have likely lasted longer had Khandelwal?s other daughter-in-law, Preeti, not spotted it and raised an alarm. Her scream?s led the men to flee, Khandlewal said, adding that they did not touch the cash and other jewellery in the house. The attack had left Urmila, 58, with a fracture in the left shoulder and Megha with a broken right foot.Three teams have been formed to investigate the case. The teams are collecting details about criminals who operate using similar methods, and are poring over electronic surveillance and human intelligence networks. The data of mobile phones active in the area during the crime are also being analysed for clues. 