Noida authority to repaint road marks to regulate traffic.
 The Noida authority has decided to paint road marks with an aim to streamline traffic movement on city roads.  The decision comes after the Noida authoritys traffic cell found out that 80% of road markings in the city are either washed away or fade out on their own. Road markings are used as a means of controlling and guiding traffic. We are likely to start painting road marks from July 15. We have already completed the procedures required for taking up such a project. Once the road and lane marks are in place, they will help the traffic police in regulating the flow of traffic, Sandip Chandra, head of the Noida authoritys traffic cell, said. The project involves marking of zebra crossings, left-right turns, stop lines for vehicles and designated spaces for pedestrians, who often face problems negotiating traffic without adequate markings on roads. The traffic police recently installed close circuit television cameras (CCTVs) at intersections in Sector 57/22 and Sector 2/19 for better traffic management. The traffic police is keen to have CCTVs installed at other intersections too. But we need to have proper road markings before we start penalising motorists caught violating traffic norms. Once the markings are done, we will issuing challans (fines) to violators, Layak Singh, traffic inspector, Noida traffic police, said. There are 112 traffic signals in Noida and the traffic police has 278 personnel at its disposal to regulate the movement of vehicles.The traffic police wants to make use of CCTVs to impose penalty on motorists violating traffic norms. Most of the busy  intersections and roads remain congested during peak hours traffic in the morning and evening, inconveniencing thousands of commuters. The Noida authority and the traffic police have, of late, been struggling to ensure smooth flow of traffic in busy thoroughfares. Whenever the traffic police writes to us for support on traffic management, we provide them the facilities required. We hope to finish the road marking work very soon in order to enable the traffic police to penalise violators, Chandra said. 