Ravi Shastri to be paid ?7 crore per year as coach: Reports.
A four-member panel comprising BCCI acting president CK Khanna, CEO Rahul Johri, Committee of Administrators (CoA) member Diana Edulji and acting secretary Amitabh Choudhary will take a call on the salary of the newly-appointed head coach Ravi Shastri.If news doing the rounds in BCCI corridors is to be believed then Shastri is expected to get Rupees seven crore per year for two years. It was learnt that Anil Kumble had asked for an amount at par with a Grade A player?s total annual earnings, about Rupees nine crore per year which was considered too high.The CoA, which met on Saturday, finalised the appointment of Shastri but took no decision on Zaheer Khan and Rahul Dravid who were recommended as bowling and batting consultants on overseas tours by the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC).Shastri had apparently been skipper Virat Kohli?s choice and wants his own set of people as support staff. He will meet the panel on Tuesday (July 19) to discuss the appointment of support staff as well as his salary.?We will further discuss with Shastri the appointment of other coaches. We have set up a committee and they will speak to the CAC, communicate with them after talking to Shastri. The support staff has been decided in consultation with the head coach,? CoA head Vinod Rai said.?Three appointments which are core to the coaching team have been decided. But we have to consult each one of them, we have to ascertain their willingness and have to ensure that there is no conflict of interest issue.?The appointment of Zaheer Khan and Rahul Dravid will be made only after consulting with Ravi Shastri. 
							(BCCI)
						The CoA also clarified that CAC had just recommended Dravid and Zaheer?s names but the decision on the support staff will be taken only after consultation with Shastri.?It?s only a recommendation. It?s not an appointment. A recommendation has been made and the CoA has to act on the recommendation which will be done only after consultation with the head coach.?Cricketers for managerThe Indian board, meanwhile, has called for applications for the post of team manager. The candidates have been asked to submit applications by July 21.The Board has laid down criterion for the manager. It will prefer someone who has played cricket at domestic or international level and has a minimum of 10 years? experience in private or public sector.