Muguruza becomes second Spanish woman to win Wimbledon.


6.50pm BST
18:50

Video highlights! Here?s how Garbiñe Muguruza won Wimbledon:

5.46pm BST
17:46

Muchas felicidades @GarbiMuguruza campeona de @Wimbledon!!! Gran éxito para el tenis español!? @Wimbledon pic.twitter.com/wdkQdQJFfOThe champion's speech...#Wimbledon pic.twitter.com/r0SOib8VRGA speech full of grace from the 2017 ladies' runner-up Venus Williams...#Wimbledon pic.twitter.com/l24sHMCDW7"Alfie and Gordon, #Wimbledon champions again!"Reid and Hewett get their hands on another piece of silverware ? pic.twitter.com/AQdzWEuRnAUpdated
at 5.51pm BST


4.00pm BST
16:00

Right, that?s it from me. Many thanks for reading/emailing/tweeting etc. Do join us for the men?s final tomorrow, when another 30-something great will be hoping to fare better than Williams did today. Bye! 

3.51pm BST
15:51

Muguruza is now looking at her name on the champions? board. She?s congratulated by her fellow Spaniards Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario and Manuel Santana before stepping out on the balcony. She shows off her trophy to those who weren?t able to watch on Centre Court. Muguruza then embraces her team. Lovely scenes.

3.48pm BST
15:48

And here?s that strange final point. I can?t remember a grand slam final ending on a Hawk-Eye challenge before. The moment @GarbiMuguruza won #Wimbledon... pic.twitter.com/u2gg7xv55Z

3.45pm BST
15:45

What a fantastic achievement by @GarbiMuguruza. Superb performance and great composure ??? #Wimbledon

3.45pm BST
15:45

Thinks plots can change fast? In the match she played prior to Wimbledon, Muguruza lost in Eastbourne 6-1, 6-0 #Wimbledon

3.44pm BST
15:44

The players walk off to a standing ovation, and their bags are being carried for them this time. Williams takes her leave first; Muguruza hangs around to show off her trophy one more time before balancing it on her head. She just about stops it from wobbling off. The Wimbledon suits will have had their hearts in their mouths there.

3.41pm BST
15:41

?Let the women play best of five,? emails John Rogers. ?A final such as this ends too quickly. Imagine now going into a third set. Garbiñe wins and it is utterly emphatic. Or Venus wins and we?re into a fourth set where it?s all to play for.?

3.39pm BST
15:39

The champion holds court. It?s been a gloomy day here at Wimbledon, but the court it lit up by camera flashes as Muguruza poses with the trophy.

3.38pm BST
15:38

And here?s the new Wimbledon champion: I grew up watching [Venus] play, so it?s incredible to play the final [against her]. [The nerves] are inside, of course I was nervous. It was very tough [the first set], we both had chances. Two years ago I lost to Serena in the final and she told me one day I?d win. Updated
at 3.55pm BST


3.37pm BST
15:37

Williams speaks: Congratulations Garbine, amazing, I know how hard you work. Well done today, beautiful.Does she have a message for Serena?I miss you. I tried my best to do the same things you do but I think there?ll be other opportunities, I do.

3.34pm BST
15:34

Trophy time. First it?s Williams?s turn to come up to collect the runners-up trophy. It?s not the silverware she?d have wanted but what a story it?s been for her this fortnight, 20 years after her Wimbledon debut. Williams can only watch on as Muguruza gets her hands on the Venus Rosewater dish. She?s the second Spaniard to win the women?s title here after Martinez, who is grinning in the players? box.Updated
at 4.03pm BST


3.32pm BST
15:32

The players are waiting for the presentation ceremony. Muguruza is beaming in her chair, her team are taking selfies, while Williams looks on wistfully. It?s a strange atmosphere now. After such a competitive, compelling first set, the second went by in the blink of an eye. There?s a certain amount of shock.

3.31pm BST
15:31

Muguruza wins on Hawkeye challenge, which I think is a first for a Slam(?). But her win was anything but anticlimactic: such emphatic play.

3.30pm BST
15:30

Amazing how how this match changed on a dime at set point down at 4-5 that 19 ball rally

3.30pm BST
15:30

This afternoon was supposed to be about Williams writing an unlikely story for ages. But Muguruza hasn?t read the script. She hasn?t got any time for sentiment. 15-0, 30-0, 40-0, as Muguruza hits deep and Williams hits into the skies. Three championship points. And some Hawk-Eye drama. Williams?s return is called out, the umpire overrules, and then Hawk-Eye shows the ball hit the line. They?ll replay the point. Muguruza nets. 40-15. Muguruza produces one of her most nervous shots of the afternoon, shanking out! 40-30! On the third championship point, Muguruza stops mid-point and challenges, what judgment, because Williams?s effort was long and Muguruza is the Wimbledon champion for the first time! She adds to her 2016 French Open title and after her defeat to Serena here in 2015, she now has got the better of a Williams sister in a grand slam final! Muguruza looks shocked - as does Williams - the Hawk-Eye challenge has robbed her of the chance for a proper celebration.Updated
at 3.58pm BST


3.25pm BST
15:25

Second set: Williams 5-7, 0-5 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)A 23rd unforced error from Williams compared to 11 from Muguruza and it?s 0-30, then 0-40. Three break points. The crowd are doing all they can to lift the five-time champion. But Williams is almost on the canvas now. Muguruza sends her stumbling around the court and breaks to love. Muguruza will serve for her first Wimbledon title.Updated
at 3.26pm BST


3.22pm BST
15:22

Second set: *Williams 5-7, 0-4 Muguruza (*denotes next server)That?s six straight games for Muguruza now. I wonder if Serena, heavily pregnant at home in Florida, is watching. Apparently the defending champion has been suffering from what she calls ?FOMO? ? fear of missing out - this fortnight. I?m not sure she?d like to take Venus?s place right now, though. Or maybe she would. She is the game?s greatest, after all. Make that seven straight games as Muguruza holds to 30 with a stunning point. The Spaniard is surging through this final now.

3.19pm BST
15:19

Second set: Williams 5-7, 0-3 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)The energy is flying from Muguruza now, while Williams looks flat. From 30-all, Muguruza gets a point for a double break when she threads a backhand down the line. Williams approaches the net but spoons a tired volley into the tramlines. Conchita Martinez, Muguruza?s temporary coach here at Wimbledon, applauds in the players? box. Martinez is the only Spanish woman to have won Wimbledon having beaten Martina Navratilova in 1994 in what was Navratilova?s last singles final here. Navratilova?s age then? 37. Perhaps a bad omen for Williams. Or a good one for Muguruza, depending on where your loyalties lie.

3.15pm BST
15:15

Second set: *Williams 5-7, 0-2 Muguruza (*denotes next server)Four games ago Williams had two points for the first set but the wheels are coming off now. 15-0, 30-0, 40-0 for Muguruza. Williams?s body language isn?t positive, she looks tired. But maybe she?s challenging the spirit of the Djokovic of old, playing a bit of rope a dope with Muguruza, because she then gets back to 40-30. But she undoes her good work with a cheap mistake. Muguruza backs up the break by holding to 30.Updated
at 3.19pm BST


3.11pm BST
15:11

Second set: Williams 5-7, 0-1 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)Both players were sucking for air after the first set finale. You feel that opening set was more important for Williams to win, can she survive another two sets of this intensity against an opponent 14 years her junior? Williams has enough energy to get to 30-0, before Muguruza gets back to 30-all. Williams edges ahead again, 40-30, but she can?t shake the Spaniard off, deuce. And then it?s Muguruza?s break point. A backhand saves Williams. But then a ballooned backhand puts her in trouble again. A second break point for Muguruza. An ace from Williams. No it?s not! Muguruza challenges and it was out. Williams nets her second serve and Muguruza is now in control, leading by a set and a break. From an ace to being broken in seconds.The tale of the tape in the first set...#Wimbledon pic.twitter.com/AsieyNkO0E

3.04pm BST
15:04

A wounded Williams takes the first point, 0-15. But Muguruza edges to 30-15. And then brings up two set points with a ridiculous get on the backhand side which initially looked like it was going long, but it loops over Williams?s head and plops in! 40-15. 40-30, after Williams fights back with a one-two punch. This time it?s Williams?s turn to display her defensive skills but after a draining duel she eventually nets! And Muguruza, having found herself two set points down two games ago, has taken the first set! And breathe.Updated
at 3.12pm BST


2.58pm BST
14:58

First set: Williams 5-6 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)?This is a brutal set of tennis, with both players seemingly trying to hit each other not so much off the court but out of SW19 altogether,? writes Guy Hornsby. ?In many ways Muguruza is the heir to the Williams sisters? power crown. This is shaping up to be a classic, but who will blink first? I feel Williams will want to finish this in two.?At 15-all, Williams?s shot is called out. She appeals to Hawk-Eye. It was well in. The point is replayed. But this time Williams rattles well long after some awkward footwork. 15-30, perhaps Williams hasn?t quite got those missed set points out of her mind. She recovers to 30-all but then clatters a forehand into the net. And from two set points up, she?s now break point down. Muguruza then shows her nerves with a shaky forehand. Deuce. Advantage Muguruza, after the Spaniard finds her forehand again. Some brutal hitting from both - they go at each other again and again and again, and Williams goes long! Muguruza claims the first break of this final and will serve for the first set! An error-strewn but compelling game. Updated
at 3.00pm BST


2.53pm BST
14:53

@KatyMurrells 2/ no excuse for women not playing BO5 in 2017; it's an unwelcome throwback from the mid 20th century

2.53pm BST
14:53

@KatyMurrells 1/ just start the doubles and mixed doubles tourneys two days earlier: scheduling problem fixed

2.52pm BST
14:52

First set: *Williams 5-5 Muguruza (*denotes next server)Muguruza must hold serve here to stay in the first set. Konta couldn?t do it at 5-4 down against Williams in the semi-finals, can the Spaniard do it here? Muguruza is blown away by a brutal strike from Williams on the first point, 0-15. Williams tries to impose her will on Muguruza on the second point too but just goes long. 15-all. 15-30. 15-40 after a tame shot from Muguruza. A disappointing way to hand Williams two set points. Muguruza sends Williams from side to side but the 37-year-old keeps getting it back, before eventually fading with a netted forehand! That rally was 19 shots, the longest of the match. Muguruza saves the other set point with a strong first serve. Deuce. And now the Spaniard?s swinging. She takes the next two points to hold. Phew.

2.45pm BST
14:45

First set: Williams 5-4 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)Williams?s ball dies on the baseline, giving Muguruza absolutely no chance. 30-0. Which is soon 40-0 after a failed Hawk-Eye challenge from Muguruza. Williams is battering the lines to within a few millimetres of their life here; three points and Williams has hit three lines. She takes the fourth point too and it?s a love hold.

2.43pm BST
14:43

First set: *Williams 4-4 Muguruza (*denotes next server)?Thank goodness the women now have to carry their own bags,? writes Sandra Lane. ?Too demeaning to be paid equal prize money yet be treated like fragile flowers. Only one more sexist hurdle remains: the right to play five-set grand slams. It?s time the organisers allowed women to do equal work for equal pay!?I?d certainly pay to watch that Sandra. The main issue may be how grand slam schedulers would fit in five-set women?s matches. One proposal would be to play best of five from perhaps the quarter-finals onwards. Though 37-year-old Williams may rather stick to three.This has been so close and competitive so far, it could come down to such small margins, as the first set did between Williams and Konta in the semi-finals. Muguruza holds to 15.

2.38pm BST
14:38

First set: Williams 4-3 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)At 15-all, Williams is like an octopus at the net, stretching one way and then the other. Muguruza can?t get past her so opts for the lob, which goes long. 30-15. Muguruza then biffs a backhand down the line, 30-all. 40-30, but then Williams throws in her second double fault of the day. At Williams?s advantage, Muguruza?s effort is called out but umpire Eva Asderaki-Moore overrules. They?ll replay the point. Williams slaps a backhand into the net. Deuce. Advantage Muguruza, her first chance to break. Williams nets the first serve, what can she do with her second? Her second serve has been so strong this tournament. Williams hits the serve deep - and Muguruza can?t get her return back into play. Deuce. Advantage Williams. A third double fault, Deuce. A big serve, Williams?s advantage. Game. A mixed bag from Williams on the serving front but she holds.

2.32pm BST
14:32

First set: *Williams 3-3 Muguruza (*denotes next server)A vicious body serve from Muguruza, a good tactic against the 6?1? Williams. 15-0. Williams scents an opportunity at 30-all, and she shows incredible movement at full stretch to ping a cross-court forehand winner! 30-40, the first break point of this final. Williams sends Muguruza one way and then the other, has the open court to aim into for the break ... and nets! A wry smile from Williams. Muguruza recovers with an ace and then Williams makes the error. Muguruza survives. We?re still on serve.Updated
at 2.47pm BST


2.27pm BST
14:27

First set: Williams 3-2 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)So both players have held serve fairly comfortably so far. This game is no different. 15-0, 30-0, 40-0, game. Muguruza is making a few too many errors on her forehand at the moment. Whenever I watch Williams play, I get rather embarrassed thinking about the first time I interviewed her when I was a rookie radio reporter. I was very nervous and was struggling to press record on my mini disc player (I?m showing my age). ?Time is ticking,? she muttered under her breath without making any eye contact. The interview didn?t get much better after that as all 5?3? of me could barely stretch the microphone - which was wobbling so much because of my nerves - to her mouth. The interview lasted all of about a minute before we?d both had enough. Not my finest hour.

2.24pm BST
14:24

First set: *Williams 2-2 Muguruza (*denotes next server)It?ll be interesting to see who the crowd side with this afternoon. They do love an underdog, and even though Muguruza is the slight favourite with the bookmakers, she does almost feel like an underdog because of Williams?s experience. Early on, the support has been fairly even. Muguruza sprints to 30-0 on her serve, but then stalls her progress with an overcooked forehand. 30-15. Muguruza flirts with danger on the next point too but survives. 40-15. Game.

2.20pm BST
14:20

First set: Williams 2-1 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)You can really hear the pop, pop, pop of the ball under the roof as these two go at each other. At 30-15, Williams wallops away a forehand winner. Oof, take that. She thinks she?s repeated the trick on the next point, hitting deep into the corner, but it?s just out. Williams considers the challenge but then decides against it. 40-30. Then game.Updated
at 2.26pm BST


2.18pm BST
14:18

First set: *Williams 1-1 Muguruza (*denotes next server)Williams started her opening service game with an ace - Muguruza begins hers with a double fault. But the Spaniard steadies herself, getting back to 15-all and then ahead at 30-15. Muguruza charges forward on the next point and puts away a straightforward volley. 40-15. Muguruza goes back behind Williams, who manages to regain her footing and hit the ball, but Muguruza takes the point. Game Muguruza.

2.14pm BST
14:14

First set: Williams 1-0 Muguruza* (*denotes next server)The rain has eased off but now the roof is closed, it will remain so for the whole match. Muguruza has her left thigh heavily strapped, as she did during her semi-final win, not that it hindered her then as she charged past Magdalena Rybarikova for the loss of only two games. Williams starts as she means to go on, with an ace. 15-0. A longer point then plays out - you feel the longer rallies are more likely to be won by the 23-year-old Muguruza today - and the 37-year-old Williams whistles wide. 15-all. 30-15, as Muguruza prods long. Muguruza mishits her return and is a bit lucky to win the point, 30-all. 40-30. A brutal backhand down the line, and Williams is on the board.Updated
at 2.19pm BST


2.06pm BST
14:06

Venus Williams' record vs not-Serena in Slam finals since 1998:4-0(Beat Davenport x2, Henin, Bartoli)#Wimbledon

2.06pm BST
14:06

?Slight advantage for Venus,? emails Baloo Punnoose. ?It will be a three set match.?And here?s David Wall: ?Aren?t the players? bags usually carried for them when they walk out for the final, or has that tradition stopped? It seems a bit mean to make them carry both bag and bunch of flowers, who knows if the extra exertion might come back to haunt them if the match runs long. Marginal gains, and all that.?

2.04pm BST
14:04

Tik! Tok! Tikity! Tok! The players are warming up. We?ll be under way shortly.Updated
at 2.10pm BST


2.03pm BST
14:03

The coin toss. A huge moment for the 12-year-old Londoner Rebecca Jones, who is representing Children in Need during the coin toss. Rebecca lost her father in 2016 after a four-year illness, and her and her family were supported by two Children in Need funded projects ? The Brain Tumour Charity and Princess Alice Hospice ? during and after her father?s illness.Today, 12-year-old Rebecca will perform the Ladies' Singles Final coin toss.This is her story...#Wimbledon @WimbledonFDN @BBCCiN pic.twitter.com/iAEoZKuPtA

2.01pm BST
14:01

Here come the players, weaving and winding their way through the corridors of the All England Club. Williams and Muguruza are both handed bouquets of flowers, as is tradition in the final, before stepping on to court to loud applause. There isn?t a smile from either player; they?ve got their game faces on.

1.58pm BST
13:58

Royal Box watch. The King of Spain is in the house today. No, not Ashley Giles, King Juan Carlos. Also taking her place in the posh seats is Mary Berry, who?s arrived a couple of days too late to sample Johanna Konta?s muffins. Other names here today include Kelly Holmes, Hilary Swank, Jim Courier and former Wimbledon champions Marion Bartoli, Billie Jean King, Martina Navratilova and Virginia Wade. Of course Wade was supposed to be sitting here today, smiling and clapping as the cameras endlessly zoomed in on her watching Konta become the first British woman since her to win Wimbledon. But no one sent the script to Williams, who ruthlessly dispatched the British No1 in the semi-finals.Updated
at 2.29pm BST


1.53pm BST
13:53

The roof is going to stay closed for the final. It should add to the atmosphere, everything seems so much more intense with the roof closed, with the sounds of the balls, players and crowd amplified. Updated
at 1.55pm BST


1.48pm BST
13:48

Can't pick this final - really make it 50-50 between Venus and Muguruza. If they both play well, it could be a great match

1.47pm BST
13:47

Prediction time. Chris Evert, Tracy Austin and Kim Clijsters give the slight edge to Williams, while Martina Navratilova appears to be siding with Muguruza. This is so hard to call. They both play such a similar game, based around their big serves and groundstrokes. This will be first-strike tennis; don?t expect too many long rallies. It could well come down to a few break points. Updated
at 1.48pm BST


1.43pm BST
13:43

More on the head-to-head. While Williams leads 3-1, Muguruza won their most recent meeting in Rome a couple of months ago, but that was on clay so we can?t read too much into that. This is their first meeting on grass, and their first at a grand slam.

1.38pm BST
13:38

Tale of the tape.Williams-Muguruza37 Age 2311 Ranking 153 Head-to-head 17 Grand slam titles 115 Grand slam finals 21 Sets dropped this tournament 1Updated
at 2.02pm BST


1.35pm BST
13:35

It?s still a sea of umbrellas outside but the band are in full swing under the roof on Centre Court, where the spectators are slowly filtering in.

1.30pm BST
13:30

Muguruza says:?It?s very impressive [Williams?s longevity]. I think not everybody can do that. It goes a lot also with the strength of your body, your style of game. For me it?s incredible. I don?t think I could be 37 and playing that level. She just loves to play and she enjoys going out there. At least it?s what it shows. She keeps playing, even though she achieve so many things. She?s still motivated to go for more, which is also very surprising.??[The 2015 Wimbledon] final helped me a lot to figure out a way to play better on grass because before I was, like, not very experienced. Never played a lot of tournaments. It was just a very surprising moment when you reach a final in a tournament where you thought it was going to be difficult. Right now I know how to play more on grass.?When I reached the final in 2015, and when I won the French Open, I could feel the difference between winning a grand slam and not winning. It?s a huge difference.?

1.25pm BST
13:25

Williams says:?There?s definitely [been] a lot of ups and downs [in her career]. I just try to hold my head up high, no matter what is happening in life.??I love the big stage. There is a lot more pressure and it is about dealing with it. There are only a handful of players each year who can push and deal with the pressure of playing your best against the best players.?I don?t think about my age. It is not a factor. I just love the game and I don?t want this part of my life to end. It is not over until it is over.?

1.22pm BST
13:22

2000. 2001. 2005. 2007. 20082017? @Venuseswilliams and #Wimbledon, quite the story... pic.twitter.com/v1BihgmPlX

1.12pm BST
13:12

The final preparations for @GarbiMuguruza...#Wimbledon pic.twitter.com/kRoHbpJDnz

1.12pm BST
13:12

In pursuit of a sixth ladies? singles title, @Venuseswilliams prepares for today?s final?#Wimbledon pic.twitter.com/oclI8cLH6V

1.10pm BST
13:10

The rain means the wheelchair men?s doubles final is suspended. Britain?s Alfie Hewett and Gordon Reid, the second seeds, were a set down 7-6 to France?s top seeds, Stephane Houdet and Nicolas Peifer, when they were forced off court. 

1.06pm BST
13:06

The bad news: it?s currently raining.The good news: there?s a chance the drizzle may have stopped by 2pm. But even if it doesn?t, there?s the roof, which is closed at the moment. It could be the first Wimbledon women?s final to be played under the roof.

12.54pm BST
12:54

At the beginning of this fortnight, much of the talk at the All England Club was about the resurgence of a former champion reaching for another Wimbledon crown. But it was Roger Federer, rather than the five-time champion two years his senior who hadn?t won a grand slam singles title since 2008.In many ways, it?s surprising that Venus Williams wasn?t regarded as one of the favourites for the women?s title from the start. The 37-year-old has been a model of consistency over the past year, suggesting she has finally found a way of managing the auto-immune disease that she was diagnosed with in 2011 and that prevented her from being a contender for several years. She arrived at Wimbledon having reached at least the last 16 in her past five majors, including at this year?s Australian Open, where she lost to her sister ? then eight weeks pregnant - in the final. So often has Venus been stalled by Serena in slams ? six of her seven final defeats have been at the hands of her younger sibling ? that Serena?s absence here removed one of her most familiar obstacles.However, Williams was burdened by the fatal car accident she was involved in last month, the details of which emerged only three days before the start of Wimbledon. Asked about the incident after her first-round win, she broke down in tears at her press conference. She struggled in the second round, coming from a set down to advance. That was the last set she dropped. Perhaps using her tennis as a refuge, she started to gain momentum. There was a certain symbolism to her victories over Naomi Osaka, Ana Konjuh and the recent French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko, who were all born in 1997, the year Williams made her Wimbledon debut. Then in the semi-finals, Williams had the look of a champion as she clinically ended the run of Johanna Konta.Now the only player standing between Williams and the title is Garbine Muguruza, who knows exactly what it?s like to lose to Serena in a grand slam final. The Spaniard was runner-up here in 2015 before securing her first major title at the French Open last year. A dip in form followed but she has rediscovered her touch this fortnight, under the guidance of her temporary coach Conchita Martinez, the 1994 Wimbledon champion. Muguruza, like Williams, hits hard, so this will be a match of few subtleties. Muguruza will know that much of the narrative surrounding this final is about Williams but she is more than capable of writing her own story this afternoon. The players will be on court at: 2pm BST. Do remember you can get in touch: via email or twitter.Updated
at 12.56pm BST
