Censor Board needs to grow up: Indu Sarkar actress Kirti.
Kirti Kulhari expressed her disappointment over Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) for making 12 cuts and adding two disclaimers in her forthcoming film Indu Sarkar. She said the censor board needs to grow up and let audience decide what they want to see."I think we desperately need some changes (in the censor board rules). I don't know, but it has become like a process where every film needs to go through and I think you should watch the film with reference to the context. Censor board needs to grow up and let the audiences grow up," she said. The censor board asked Madhur Bhandarkar, the director of Indu Sarkar, to remove words like RSS and Akali from the film. The filmmaker, who doesn't wish to make the changes as he fears the essence of the film will get affected, was flummoxed by CBFC's decision.Kirti along with filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar, veteran singer-composer Bappi Lahiri and Miss India Tourism Ishika Taneja was in the capital to launch the film's new song Dilli Ki Raat."After Pink, I wanted to do something with which people will get surprised again so Indu Sarkar seemed as the perfect fit as it has Emergency as its backdrop. It's a very important subject. The title role that I played was very challenging and interesting," Kirti said.Controversies over Indu Sarkar have ranged from reactions against the CBFC, backlash against Bhandarkar after a Congress representative announced prize money for any person who can blacken the filmmaker's face, to politicians demanding exclusive screenings of the film ahead of censor certification for approvals.About the row, Kirti said: "I will be lying if I say that it (controversies surrounding Indu Sarkar') doesn't bother me. Initially I was like, it's fine. But now daily something or the other is happening, especially I am most concerned about the censor board because if we do what they have asked for, then the whole essence of the film goes."Indu Sarkar, also featuring Neil Nitin Mukesh and Anupam Kher, is slated to release on July 28.