UP directs change in land use rules for Noida Int'l Airport .
The Uttar Pradesh civil aviation department has directed the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) to immediately change the land use of 3,000 hectares of agricultural land for Jewar airport project, officials said. The Uttar Pradesh government headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath wants officials to fast track the airport project as it will help bring in investments to the state and facilitate the setting  up of industries, thereby generating employment. The Noida international airport project in Jewar will boost economic growth, officials said.Aiming to expedite the project, the UP governments civil aviation department wants the YEIDA to begin the process of changing the land use immediately.I have ordered the planning department to prepare a proposal and begin the process to change the land-use of 3,000 hectares  of agricultural land in 17 villages. The UP government wants us to make necessary changes in our Master Plan 2021. The land that is shown for agricultural use now will be marked for the airport project in the master plan, said Arun Vir Singh, YEIDA chief executive officer.The Union civil aviation ministry on June 24 gave a green signal for an international airport in Jewar, along the 165 km Yamuna Expressway. The YEIDA has also asked for a fund of Rs 2,000 crore and a dedicated team to begin land acquisition for the project. To begin with, the YEIDA will acquire 1,000 hectares of agricultural land. The crucial point is the change in land use. After preparing the proposal, we will publish a public notice in newspapers seeking objections from the public about changes in Master Plan 2021. The public will be able to give their suggestions and objections in 15 days, said Singh. Subsequently we will approve the proposal in our board and then sent to UP government for approval. After UP approval we will send it to national capital region planning board for final approvals on land use change, he said. The national capital region planning board (NCRPB), which was formed by the Centre in 1985, to contain haphazard urbanisation in Delhi and its neighbouring towns  of Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr and Gurgaon, among others, will have to approve the proposal for changing agricultural land use. All states, including UP, Haryana and Rajasthan, are violating NCRPB provisions and acquiring agricultural land without following due procedure. This will, in the long run, create environmental issues, said Raghuraj Singh, a Congress leader fighting a case on NCRPB violations in the Allahabad high court. However, the YEIDA officials said their plans have been approved by the planning board.Our Master Plan 2021 is approved by the NCRPB. We will follow all procedures to change the land use for the airport project, the CEO said.