Had no ego issue carrying drinks in Champions Trophy: Rahane.
It's not easy if you have been an India Test captain in March and performing the duties of a 12th man in June but Ajinkya Rahane is a team man to the core, who believes that moment one wears the India jersey, one needs to keep all his insecurities and ego issues at bay. Rahane was the captain during India's series winning Test against Australia at Dharamsala. However in Champions Trophy, he did not get to play a single match and had to perform the duties of a 12th man. But in the West Indies series that followed, he emerged as the top run-getter with Man of the Series award."If I am the vice-captain of the Test team, it does not mean that I will not be performing my duties as a 12th man in ODIs. The moment you are representing your country, you are supposed to do whatever you are assigned. When I was carrying drinks during the Champions Trophy, I had no ego issues. That's how I am as a person," Rahane said.The elegant right-hander made a successful comeback into the ODI playing XI with 336 runs from five ODIs at an average of 67.20 including a hundred and three half-centuries. "West Indies was a special series for me simply for the consistency that I was able to show. This series is an important one for my ODI career and getting runs in almost all the matches was a really satisfying feeling. I got opportunity to show a different side to my batting and express myself differently," said Rahane.For Rahane, more than technical, there were mental adjustments that were really very necessary. Asked to elaborate, Rahane said: "By instinct, I am an attacking batsman but the pitches in the West Indies required a different mindset. It required patience and at times not get enticed to go for the big ones. Discretion was necessary in shot selection."And when we talk about discretion, that's where the mind comes into play - to be able to think clearly what are the shots that I am going to play in a particular situation, on a particular kind of pitch," he said.For him, what made the knocks special was the pitches in the West Indies which weren't exactly batting friendly with the ones in Port of Spain and Antigua creating difficulties."Actually the 62 that I got in the first ODI (abandoned due to rain), gave me a lot of confidence. It was my comeback match. I wanted to have a good knock under my belt. Once I got those runs, the second match was even better when I scored that century. The pitches were sluggish in nature and each pitch was so different from one another," he stated.The soft-spoken Rahane said that not for once did he feel insecured because he was coming in place of a rested Rohit Sharma, who is again expected to open the innings during the Sri Lanka ODIs."This is a great phase in Indian cricket where we have so many top quality players competing for a place in the Indian team. It's always good to have competition. As far as I am concerned, I have never ever been insecure in my life."Although he doesn't want to look too far ahead, Rahane is game about batting at any slot in the limited overs version. "Actually my spiritual guru tells me one thing. It is very important to live in the present, irrespective of whether you are playing or not. The biggest lesson of life for me is to keep things simple.