Gangster makes threat call from jail, two arrested .
Two persons, including a policeman, were arrested by the Gurgaon police for allegedly getting a gangster to make a ?threatening? phone call for mediating in a property dispute in Wazirabad village on Wednesday. Police said  an inmate who was lodged in Bhondsi jail sought the help of gangster Manjeet Mahal to threaten the other group lead by Rakesh, which had claimed the plot on the upscale Golf Course Road. On June 27, the call was made by gangster on behalf of the inmate and ASI Raj Singh was involved in making this happen, a police official said. ?As the phone call was made from inside the jail, it is a very serious matter and two persons, including a policeman, have been booked. The matter will be investigated thoroughly to ensure that such threats are not made again,? said Sumit Kuhar, DCP, crime. Kuhar said the matter was brought to the notice of the police on Wednesday and action was taken immediately as the matter was serious. ?Mahal was taken on production warrant on Friday and if this matter had come to our notice then we could have questioned him earlier,? he added. Ironically, while Mahal was at the Crime Branch, Palam Vihar, four police officials were suspended for drinking liquor during the duty hours inside the office premises. As per the police, the matter pertains to a 500 square yard plot which is claimed by Rakesh, a resident of Jhund Sarai village and another man identified as Rajkumar. On June 8, there was a fight between both groups as a result of which the inmate was booked and sent to Bhondsi jail, where he got in touch with the Manjeet Mahal gang.On Surender?s behest, a phone call was made to Rakesh to leave the plot of land, else he should be ready to face ?the consequences?. However, as the phone call was made from jail, the police got active after getting the complaint and booked the inmate as well as ASI Raj Singh of the crime branch, and took him into custody for further questioning. The Gurgaon police had carried out a major search operation last month in Bhondsi jail and recovered over a dozen mobile phones from the inmates. In fact, a highly placed source said that as the jammers at the jail were inadequate, the inmates used ingenious methods to keep the phones, and use them intermittently to run their extortion and other rackets. 