Abducted 13-yr-old Delhi girl returns home pregnant.
A 13-year-old girl from south Delhi, who allegedly eloped with her neighbour two months ago, returned last week and was found to be three months pregnant. The girl had left her home on May 10 to buy some ice cream for her family, but never returned.The minor?s neighbour, Iddu Khan, a 22-year-old cook at a local restaurant, has been arrested and jailed after he surrendered before a court after being asked to produce the ?missing? girl.Read: How a Delhi man searched for his ?missing? 13-year-old daughter for two monthsSince the girl is a minor, the suspect has been booked for rape and abduction under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Khan has reportedly told the police that he had married the girl, forcing the police to also book him under the Child Marriage Restraint Act. The police have also nabbed two of his friends who acted as ?witnesses? to the marriage. ?The marriage has no validity,? said Romil Baaniya, DCP (south-east).The girl, however, has reportedly told a city court that she wants to be with the man and should not be forced to return to her parents, said the DCP. She is currently under the care of the Children Welfare Committee, which will also take a call on the future of her pregnancy.Read: Raped and ?married?, 13-year-old pregnant Delhi girl refuses to return homeThe girl lived with her parents and two younger brothers in a single room accommodation in the area.  Khan lived with a group of friends in the same neighbourhood. According to the girl?s father, Khan and his friends would come out to their balconies daily to stare at his daughter. ?I had asked my daughter to avoid them,? the father said.On May 10, the girl left her home after telling her brother that she was going out to buy ice-creams. When she did not return, a search was launched in the neighbourhood, before a missing complaint was filed .When raids at the homes of Iddu Khan and his relatives yielded no results, the father approached a city court at the advice of his employer.  ?The court ordered the police to find my daughter, after which there was a better response,? he said.The raids and the arrest of the Khan?s friend on July 3, forced him to surrender before Saket court four days later. He had brought the girl along. 