Don?t have 'aukat' to be anyone's godmother in B'wood: Richa.
Actor Richa Chadha has never shied away from talking about how she struggled to make a mark in Bollywood without  a godfather. However, now that she has received recognition and a position in the industry, she wants to extend a helping hand to newcomers.?I don?t think I have that aukat (stature, status)  to be anyone?s godmother right now, but I will do whatever I can to help newcomers. When I started in the industry, people had helped me; so why not extend that favour to others.I know how it feels  when people call you an outsider. It?s disturbing,? says Richa, who has been part of the industry for nine years now with films such as Gangs of Wasseypur (2012), Masaan (2015)  and Sarbjit (2016) to her credit. Richa has also turned producer of regional films recently.The 30-year-old actor says it is unfair to give an actor the tag of an outsider. ? This stance is a cause of worry. With this,  you are basically  telling people, who are not born in the film fraternity, that  they  don?t have a chance. That?s not a good thing for the industry because then the talented ones will not come forward. If you give a chance to people, talent  will come from  all parts of India . But, if only one kind of idea is perpetuated, it kills diversity,? she says.Talking about being part of content driven cinema in Bollywood, Richa, who made her debut with Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye (2008), says she always wanted to be part of memorable films. ?When I did Oye Lucky, I had just finished my education and didn?t have the guidance and the maturity to decide what kind of genre I should do. In fact, after that, for two years, I did TV commercials and not films. Then Gangs of  Wasseypur happened and I have been lucky to do  good roles. I guess it?s a two-way thing, I get good roles and I do them well. I always wanted to be in films that would be memorable. Sometimes, we watch films and then forget them instantaneously; I never wanted to be part of them,? she says.Follow @htshowbiz for more