Bomb found in Uttar Pradesh Assembly, CM calls for NIA probe.
In a major security breach in Uttar Pradesh Assembly, an explosive was found by the security personnel with the help of dog squad on July 12 in the premises. 150 grams of white powder, wrapped in small plastic bag, was found in the State Assembly during an ongoing session.. Later, it was sent to forensic lab which confirmed the presence of PETN, which is a powerful explosive.CM Adityanath, while confirming that an explosive, by the name of Pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN), was indeed found in the Assembly, pressed for more vigilance in Uttar Pradesh, more particularly in the Assembly and rued the absence of a Quick Response Team (QRT) for the state."The packet of the explosive was found under the chair of the Opposition's leader. It was 150 gm of PETN. 500 gm of PETN is enough to blow the whole Assembly off. This shows the severity of the situation. I suggest that everybody present in the Assembly should be investigated by the police and that the NIA should investigate into the matter," he said."It's unfortunate that the largest Assembly of the country doesn't have a QRT," he added.Adityanath also said that this incident could be in connivance with a terrorist or militant group and that the security of the state and the country is paramount.Aditynath also urged the officials to not compromise on the security of the state and the nation, more so considering the current situation of the country.He also said that MLA's and lawmakers should either not be allowed to carry mobile phones in the Assembly premises or should  put their phone on silent as the noise breaks the gravity of discussions.  UP Assembly speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit has said provincial armed constabulary and Quick Response Teams will be deployed at Assembly premises. "There will be a Pradeshik Armed Constabulary (PAC) team at every gate of the Assembly. There will also be a full body scanner at every gate. Moreover, a QRT will also be deployed," he said. The state government has beefed up the security in the entire state specially in the western and poorvanchal region, in view of the Kanwar Yatra in progess.Yogi has also assured protection to the devotees, who participate in thousands in the one-month religious event, Saavan.(With inputs from Alok Ranjan) Also read:Uttar Pradesh ups security for Kanwar Yatra after Amarnath attack 