You're in good shape: Trump to French Prez's 64-yr-old wife.
US President Donald Trump was captured complimenting the French presidents wifes appearance Thursday as he toured a famous Paris landmark.Video footage posted on the French governments official Facebook page showed Trump, French President Emmanuel Macron and their wives chatting after their tour of the museums at Les Invalides.As they were saying their good-byes, Trump turned to Brigitte Macron, who is 25 years senior to President Macron, and gestured toward her body.You know, youre in such good shape, Trump said, before repeating the observation to her husband. Beautiful, he added.Brigitte Macron was her husbands former high school teacher and their relationship has drawn international attention because of their significant age difference.But feminists and President Macron have denounced that attention as sexist, arguing that nobody would blink an eye if he were the older spouse.The Macrons age difference is identical to that of Donald and Melania Trump, who were spending two days in Paris in celebration of Bastille Day.Trump has drawn criticism in the past for comments some say objectify and demean women, including the infamous Access Hollywood tape in which he bragged about sexually assaulting women and boasted, When youre a star, they let you do it. You can do anything.It wasnt the only uncomfortable moment the France first lady shared with US President Trump, however. US president  Trumps official France tour started with an awkward handshake he exchanged with the France first lady.The lengthy and visibly awkward handshake happened when the France first lady, with her husband, welcomed Trump and his wife Melania Trump to Paris. Twitter, on the other hand, was quick to react on Brigitte Macrons uncomfortable moments with Trump.Live television. Trump just yanked Brigitte Macron's hand. What's wrong with this guy! pic.twitter.com/zGiwc2wlzn Arjun Sethi (@arjunsethi81) July 13, 2017Thank God he didn't dislocate her shoulder with that creepy arm pull. Can't he leave off the alpha male dominance displays w/ the ladies Harmless (@InertAlien) July 13, 2017Trump to Macron: Your wife is old but still hot, seems like a high-quality person, her arm didn't come off when I pulled it. #trumpfrance rchristie (@waspokey) July 13, 2017Dear god whyyyy does he do that! pic.twitter.com/hb1ZNsIMJ7 Carol C (@gemi6615) July 13, 2017That move was very aggressive. It's quite triggering for victims of domestic violence. Please don't ever let this man meet Queen Elizabeth. LizzDregne (@LizzDregne) July 13, 2017trump greeted France's First Lady with an aggressive handshake & an abhorrent comment: "you're in such great shape"A daily embarrassment. Ricky Davila (@TheRickyDavila) July 13, 2017