Zaheer, Dravid not foisted on head coach: Sachin in letter.
After the appointment of Zaheer Khan and Rahul Dravid as consultants with the Indian team created a storm in the media, the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) members have taken up the matter with Committee of Administrators (CoA) and BCCI, asking them to clarify the impression created against their intentions to appoint the two alongside chief coach Ravi Shastri.The three members of the CAC, Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly and VVS Laxman, have written separate letters to Vinod Rai, the head of the COA, and Amitabh Choudhary, the acting secretary of the BCCI.READ?|?Zaheer Khan to be asked to give up Indian Premier League contract for India jobThey have taken exception to the fact that their decision to appoint Zaheer Khan as bowling consultant and Rahul Dravid as batting consultant has been spoken about as CAC exceeding their brief. ?There have been suggestions that the CAC has exceeded its ambit in going with Mr Khan and Mr Dravid, and these two legends of Indian cricket have been foisted on the head coach. It has both pained and disappointed us therefore to see the light in which the CAC has been portrayed in various sections of the media,? protested Sachin Tendulkar in a strongly-worded letter.?While we all know that none of these reports are true, it is out in public domain and it is imperative that the cricket-loving public at large is made aware of the reality. We could do it ourselves, of course, but we don?t want to further queer the pitch. So, we would respectfully request you to clear the air and set the record straight in this regard,? he wrote.READ?|?Here is why Shane Warne called Ravindra Jadeja a ?rockstar??The three of us played our cricket with great integrity, and we have brought that same trait in fulfilling this important responsibility bestowed upon us by the BCCI. While we are not looking for plaudits, we do not appreciate the tone and the falsehoods of some of the narratives,? wrote Sachin Tendulkar.?You (Rai/Choudhary) will be aware that we put our heart and soul into the process, approaching a task made delicate by the recent developments with a clear head and with the sole aim of providing the Indian team with the best resources possible to become the world-beaters they are capable of being.READ?|?West Indies will strive to get direct entry into ICC World Cup 2019: Chris Gayle?We also bring to your notice the mail you had circulated to us saying that we had absolutely free hand in picking the coach of the Indian cricket team. Also, we did inform you over the phone along with Rahul Johri and Amitabh Choudhary of all that transpired immediately after the meeting was over,? one of the letters stated.In an interview to a newspaper, chief coach Ravi Shastri stated that he should be entitled to select his own support staff. Shastri has made his intentions clear of wanting Bharat Arun as bowling coach.READ?|?Erapalli Prasanna?disappointed? with CAC?s drama over India coach selectionAfter the protest letters from CAC, the BCCI sent a clarification that Zaheer and Dravid will be ?batting and bowling consultants on overseas tour-to-tour basis, as per the requirement of the team?. In the original release, Zaheer was named bowling consultant.The BCCI release further stated: ?The three members of the committee ? Mr. Sourav Ganguly, Mr. Sachin Tendulkar and Mr. VVS Laxman ? have executed the assigned task with total transparency, professionalism and commitment to Indian cricket.?