BJP calls for strike in Kerala over RSS worker's killing.
Several parts of Kerala were tense on Sunday where the BJP has called a shutdown to protest against the killing of a Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) worker, who was allegedly stabbed by CPI(M) workers a day earlier.E Rajesh, 34, was stabbed 40 times and his left hand chopped off by a group of men at around 9pm on Saturday. He died in a city hospital. The murder is the latest in the fresh round of violence between the RSS, the ideological parent of the BJP, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) supporters.Spoke to Kerala CM Shri Pinrayi Vijayan today regarding the recent incidents of political violence in the state. 1/3 Rajnath Singh (@rajnathsingh) July 30, 2017I have expressed my concern with the law and order situation in the state of Kerala. Political violence is unacceptable in a democracy. 2/3 Rajnath Singh (@rajnathsingh) July 30, 2017I expect that the political violence in Kerala is curbed and that the perpetrators are brought to justice expeditiously. 3/3 Rajnath Singh (@rajnathsingh) July 30, 2017Two days ago BJPs state office in the city and the house of CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan son were vandalised. BJP state chief Kummanam Rajasekharan sought immediate intervention of the Centre, where the party is in power, but the ruling CPI (M) denied its cadre were involved in the murder. The ruling CPI(M) cant get away with these killings. It is nothing but state-sponsored terrorism, said Rajasekharan. CPI(M) district secretary A Nagappan blamed personal rivalry for the killing.The assailants had been identified and would be arrested soon,Thiruvananthapuram range inspector general of police Manoj Abraham said.Police were keeping a close watch on trouble-torn Kannur district, notorious for the clashes between the two sides. The Opposition Congress has asked chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to call a peace meeting to end the recurring cycle of violence.Clashes between the BJP and the CPI (M) are on the rise as the RSS makes inroads in the southern state where politics has been dominated by the Left parties.The BJP managed to bag its first assembly seat  Nemom, a Thiruvananthapuram suburb -- during last years state election.The violence that was once limited to the north is now spreading to others parts of the state, including the capital city of Thiruvananthapuram in the south. . 