Delhi traffic cops dupe truck drivers in name of GST .
Five traffic policemen have been suspended for duping truck drivers entering Delhi in the name of recently implemented Goods and Services Tax (GST). Narendra Singh Bundela, joint commissioner of police (traffic), said on Thursday that the five cops were caught taking bribes from the truckers over the past three days. He confirmed that departmental action has been initiated against the accused traffic cops.  They were allegedly stopping truck drivers on Delhis border points and extorting money from them by asking them to prove whether GST has been paid on the goods that they were carrying or not.  Bundela clarified that no traffic policeman was authorised to check GST receipts. He urged the people  to immediately report such cases as many more similar complaints have been received.People should reach us on Twitter, Facebook, our helpline numbers, emails or whatever platform they find convenient. We have instructed the traffic DCPs of all regions to review the situation and conduct surprise checks, said Bundela.An assistant sub-inspector, a head constable and three constables were among the suspended cops.A senior police officer said the action on such cases is being directly monitored by the police commissioner, Amulya Patnaik, and Ajay Kashyap, Special Commissioner (Traffic).The Goods and Services Tax was rolled out on July 1, ushering a new system of indirect taxes in the country. It is meant to boost growth and scrap local taxes that add to overhead costs and stymie businesses.The traffic police have also been receiving frequent complaints from the citys traders. On Thursday, a group of traders representing Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) met Ajay Kashyap, Special CP (traffic), and demanded action.Traders have been complaining that tempo and other commercial vehicles are being stopped by traffic policemen who are demanding to see the GST bills and invoices of the goods being transported. This is being used as an excuse to seek money from them, said Brijesh Goyal, CTI convenor, adding the traffic police were not authorised to check the GST bills.