Mumbai may get second underground Metro.
 The city could soon get its second underground Metro line after the Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ corridor. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority is planning to extend the WadalaGhatkoparThaneKasarvadavali Metro 4 up to GPO at Fort in south Mumbai. MMRDA officials said the detailed project report is in the final stages and the Wadala-General Post Office extension is likely to be partially underground. The 8-km extension will pass through the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) on the eastern waterfront. Officials havent planned how much of the extension will be elevated and how much of it will be underground. The extension is being planned to provide connectivity up to south Mumbai via port land, which is going to be developed as a second Marine Drive by MbPT.The south Mumbai extension will be partially underground. The corridor will be taken underground wherever we cant make it elevated. A detailed report is expected in September, said Pravin Darade, additional metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA.Senior MbPT officials are keen on an underground corridor for the stretch that passes through its land. MbPT is currently carrying out a study on how to commercially exploit the its 550-hectare land parcel. They have envisaged to revamp the eastern waterfront into a hub of recreation and entertainment. MbPT has conveyed to the MMRDA that it would like an underground line, but the final decision will be taken once the report is out, said a senior official.Officials added MbPT will share the project cost as the extension would help them get footfalls when port trust land is developed commercially. According to officials, the per km cost for the elevated corridor is estimated to be Rs300 crore and Rs750 crore for the underground portion.With the extension of the Metro 4, there would be two Metro lines operating in south Mumbai. The Metro-4 corridor would cater to the commuters from the eastern suburbs, while the Metro 3 would be an alternative to commuters living in the western suburbs.Read more: Mumbai metro gets machines to crush your plastic bottles, give you 25% discount on clothes, sunglasses