Akshay praises fan's rap video on 'Toilet- Ek Prem Katha'.
Actor Akshay Kumar is generating a lot of buzz for his upcoming film Toilet: Ek Prem Katha, whose plot is aligned with the principles of Prime Minister Narendra Modis Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan. While Akshay and his co-star Bhumi Pednekar are yet to start ground promotions for the film, it looks like fans have already started spreading the word.One of the most remarkable fan tributes is a rap video, with quirky lyrics and peppy beats, made by Abhishek Bhatt aka ABRK. He says that the video is dedicated to Mr. Akshay Kumar. Abhishek posted the video on YouTube and wrote: Its time to be a part of Keshav [portrayed by Akshay] and Jayas [portrayed by Bhumi] anokhi love story! Presenting my own made Rap of Toilet- Ek Prem Katha.Addressing Dear Akshay Sir, Abhisheks message further read: I hope youll see this video. I have worked on it for 2 days. You are my inspiration. I am one of the biggest fan of yours (sic). He also wrote that he has made the video to thank Mr. Khiladi for always inspiring us.While Abhishek only hoped that his idol would watch the video, he probably never expected Akki to acknowledge his gesture by not only sharing the video on Twitter but also giving a salute to the fan who made it. Har ghar mein hoga shauchalaya, woh din sabse acha hoga hi lekin filhaal yeh video dekhkar aaj ka din acha ho gaya. Salute to you Mr. #ABRK, Akshay posted on Twitter, along with the fans rap song, which promotes the message being sent out through the film.Har ghar mein hoga shauchalaya, woh din sabse acha hoga hi lekin filhaal yeh video dekhkar aaj ka din acha ho gaya Salute to you Mr. #ABRK https://t.co/iqkala1vmH Akshay Kumar (@akshaykumar) July 13, 2017The video opens with the title, Toilet: Ek Prem Katha, and the first stanza goes:Desh ko karta ganda kyun, insaan bana hai andha kyunPower ki aad mein, chal raha galat dhanda kyunToilet: Ek Prem Katha, samaaj ko lagega pataShauchalya na banwane ki, haan kya hoti hai khataConsisting stills of the movie shown in the trailers released so far, the rap video has been filmed by Bharat Gupta, while Abhishek has written the lyrics, and performed the song, besides doing the mixing and editing.Being directed by Shree Narayan Singh, Toilet: Ek Prem Katha is a satirical comedy that highlights the issue of open defecation, especially in the rural areas of India, and is releasing on August 11, 2017.Follow @htshowbiz for more