Warne called me rockstar, didn't know what it meant: Jadeja.
Ravindra Jadeja's indecision cost Hardik Pandya his wicket in the final of the ICC Champions Trophy against Pakistan. Many cricket fans blamed the al-rounder for the eventual loss. "Honestly the true followers of the game understand that such things (run out) happen sometimes. No one does it intentionally," Ravindra Jadeja told India Today.  "Everyone wants to represents the country and everyone has big dreams. There have been so many run outs in cricket, but it is part of the game and I don't think I need to worry so much about it," he added.  India has played a lot of cricket since then. Virat Kohli's men finished the short West Indies tour on a sour note, losing in the solitary T20, but not before winning five-match ODI series 3-1. Up next a Sri Lanka who will be trying to bounce back after an humiliating loss to Zimbabwe in the ODI series.   "Critics change their views after every series. I don't play the game for critics. I play for myself. I always aim to give my best in whatever conditions that I play in," he said on his critics questioning his overseas record. Jadeja is excited for a long and challenging tour of the island nation. India will play three Tests, five ODIs and a lone T20 international in Sri Lanka starting July 26"I like to perform when there are challenges. In cricket when you get easy performances or easy wickets then it's no fun, but when you have to fight and perform in challenging conditions then that feeling is something else," he said.Ravindra Jadeja and his wife Reeva Solanki, who got married on April 17 last year in Rajkot, became parents to a baby girl at the  start of last month."It was a special feeling. I don't realise anything now but as I spend more time with the baby, then I will get more attached. It is a good thing for me and everyone in the family is so happy," said Jadeja on the birth of his baby girl, even confessing,  "Sometimes when I go home, I get bored so now I have a toy to play with now, it will be a good time pass for me." 