Ganguly called his shirt-waving celebration a 'big mistake'.
Former Indian captain Sourav Ganguly on Saturday regretted taking off his shirt on the Lord's balcony after India's win in the NatWest triangular series in 2002 in England, calling it a mistake.When reminded of the incident, Ganguly said it was only a way of "relieving the pressure". "You make mistakes in life. I made a mistake. But we were on the winning side," he said at Salaam Cricket Conclave 2014, a day-long event organised by the India Today Group in New Delhi.On being asked what has been his best mistake, Ganguly quipped, "When I got married." When asked if marriage is akin to captaining India since the first five years are tough, Ganguly quoted actor Shah Rukh Khan, "As SRK says, end mein sab theek ho jaata hai," bringing the house down.The former Indian skipper also said a resurgent Team India will not buckle pressure anymore. "In 2003, we lost to the best Aussie side under Ricky Ponting. But today, the Indians won't buckle under pressure," the former Indian captain said.Seated with Clive Lloyd, Arjuna Ranatunga and Allan Border, who all led their respective teams to a World Cup victory, Ganguly, in his characteristic wit, shared the Indian side of the World Cup story. Ganguly-led India lost to Australia in the finals of the 2003 World Cup in South Africa.Speaking in the session, 'Pressures of the World Cup', Ganguly remembered the loss, saying it was very difficult to captain India because of the huge expectations involved. "Stones were thrown at us after the Johannesburg loss. We Indians react under pressure. But we are used to it (pressure). You have to deal with it," the southpaw told moderator Rajdeep Sardesai.The 2001-2 Test series against the Aussies was a turning point when India realised their strength after winning the rubber 2-1 against Steve Waugh's formidable team. "Suddenly, we realised that the side was looking up. We were fighting," the southpaw told Sardesai.Speaking about the toss controversy - when Ganguly kept Waugh waiting - the former Indian captain said he was only looking for a blazer. He also praised the Aussie legend, saying it was great playing against him. In turn, Waugh said he loved playing against India. "At the end of the day, it was fantastic cricket. I have no regret that we lost," the former Aussie captain said.Talking about pressure in a World Cup ahead of its 2015 edition in Australia, Border said, "This country is so passionate about cricket."Clive Lloyd, the legendary winner of World Cups 1975 and 1979 for the West Indies, said, "Pressure is always there. We are a side comprising players from different islands, representing different cultures. England is one country. India is one country. It's very difficult to get people together in West Indies. You represent different people."Talking about the 1983 Wold Cup loss to India, Lloyd said, "What happens on a particular day matters. Whoever plays better wins. India did play well. It gave them that lift and they realised they can do well."