AIB slammed for meme on Modi, slammed again for deleting.
While your doppelganger might still be wandering around somewhere across the world, the internet has managed to find not one but many of Prime Minister Narendra Modis look-alikes time after time.One such look-alike was spotted waiting for a train at a railway station recently and, of course, the photo went viral on social media sites in no time.Comedy group All India Bakchod (AIB) was among the many Twitteratis who jumped onto the bandwagon to spread some humour. They  posted the dopplegangers photo alongside an actual photo of Modis face with the Snapchat dog filter. However, not all Twitter users were impressed, and the AIB came under fire from Modi supporters for insulting the prime minister and hurting nationalist sentiments. Publicity theek hai yaar, lage haath thode nationalist sentiments aur hurt kar lo cuz Modi goes hand in hand. Magar joke to dhang ka ho! pic.twitter.com/sLSo4EyMHy A La' Vile De Satara (@AdvancedMaushi) July 13, 2017Tanmay Bhat & Rohan Joshi are ppl who will put dog filter on PM Modi's pic at night and wake up shouting no freedom of expression in India. Startup of Cards (@BhargavPurohit) July 13, 2017Always thought that @AllIndiaBakchod had extra balls when they made jokes on MMS,RG & Cong during UPA. Come Modi.Their balls have shrivelled pic.twitter.com/wIJsv1d92H Rachit Seth (@rachitseth) July 13, 2017Within hours, the group deleted the post fearing more backlash. However, the saga did not end there. Soon enough, some Twitter users started trolling the AIB - this time for being scared of the BJP and deleting the tweet. Now AIB should just stick to making anti-Congress sketches which they did with much pride during our regime, ab woh FOE yaad nahi! Angellica Aribam (@AngellicAribam) July 13, 2017(Today's AIB saga TL;DR)AIB: Ye lo. Joke on Modi.BJP: WTF! REPORT! PUNISH!AIB: OK. Taking it down.Cong: WTF! REPORT! PUNISH!THE END Meghnad (@Memeghnad) July 13, 2017> @thetanmay always known & said AIB are cowards. Dont have guts to criticise Modi as they do RG. Which is why I don't watch or follow AIB. https://t.co/1Jfgt6srbt CoffeeStains (@umesh110168) July 13, 2017This did not go down well with AIB co-founders Tanmay Bhat and Rohan Joshi who hit back at the trolls in equal measure. Become a household name, spend 1 cr plus on existing cases, phir gyaan dena, thanks :) Tanmay Bhat (@thetanmay) July 12, 2017Dum naheen hai Modiji ke upar video banaane ka, ye boliye na sir. Paisa to aata jaata rahega :) https://t.co/Jypp1DjkRw Typo (@typerioter) July 13, 2017Good change of pace today. Butthurt congresstards for once. Come come. Been a while since you lot felt relevant I guess. Rohan (@mojorojo) July 13, 2017Congress leaders and BJP trolls both getting mad over a goddamn silly snapchat filter meme smh Tanmay Bhat (@thetanmay) July 13, 2017In the end Tanmay Bhatt had had enough with the roasting.PS: Will continue making jokes. And deleting if necessary. And making jokes again. And Apologizing if necessary. Don't care what you think. Tanmay Bhat (@thetanmay) July 13, 2017pic.twitter.com/MMG9E5zNQj Tanmay Bhat (@thetanmay) July 13, 2017