9-year-old found dead in park with deep cuts and burn marks.
A nine-year-old boy?s nude body, marked with deep cuts and possible burns, was found in a public park in south Delhi?s Pul Prahladpur on Tuesday.The boy?s family alleged that he was tortured before being murdered as there were burn marks on his body. They suspect that the killer had stubbed burning cigarettes on his body before killing him.Romil Baaniya, DCP (south-east), said he wanted to wait for the autopsy report to confirm if the boy was tortured or sexually abused before being murdered.The nature of the injuries on the body has led the boy?s family to allege that an object like a screw driver or an ice-prick was used to kill him. ?There were deep puncture marks on the boy?s body which suggested a sharp object was used,? said the DCP.According to his family, the boy had left his home to play with his friends on Tuesday afternoon. As it began raining soon after, his parents thought he must have been stuck somewhere when he did not return home in sometime.But when the boy did not return home even by evening, his family and neighbours launched a search in the area. They also alerted the police when they could not trace him.The boy?s body was finally found around 10.30pm in a park, less than 500 metres from his home. A visitor had spotted the body in the bushes and had raised an alarm.?Given the weather, it is possible the body had begun to decompose quickly and left marks,? the DCP reasoned about the ?burn marks?.A murder case has been registered at Pul Prahladpur police station. However, no breakthrough in the case was made until Wednesday night. The police remained clueless about the killers as well as the possible motives behind the murder.The investigators are searching for CCTV footage on the possible routes the boy took from his home. They are also speaking to his friends in a bid to know the killer?s identity.The boy lived with his parents and sister in Pul Prahladpur. His father runs a business in the area and mother is a housewife. 