26-year-old with 'wrinkled' skin disorder turns model.
One look at her and it appears she is wearing a full-sleeve high-neck. Perhaps it?s a size larger than her own because it wrinkles on her neck, down her stomach and inner sides of her arms. Look closer at 26-year-old Sara Geurts and you realise that?s not a piece of clothing but ripples that adorn her skin. The aspiring model from Minneapolis, Minnesota was only 10 years old when she was diagnosed with a rare type of skin disorder, Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, reported mirror.co.uk, that causes skin and joints to stretch beyond normal.    A post shared by Sara Geurts (@sarageurts) on May 1, 2017 at 10:37am PDT Sara first noticed something different about her body, says the report, when she was just seven. Because of little information and awareness about the skin problem, Sara had to undergo numerous tests before it was established that she had the disorder that was causing severe acne and sores on the top of her hairline and making the skin on her body loose and stretchy. Struggling with low self-esteem and body image issues, Sara would hide her skin under baggy clothes to avoid drawing attention to herself, while her friends wore whatever they wanted to. ?I wasn?t bullied and my family and friends were very supportive, but I hated my skin. I was lucky I didn?t get any nasty remarks,? the report quotes.  A post shared by Sara Geurts (@sarageurts) on Jun 22, 2017 at 10:36am PDT The turning point came in 2015 when, after a break up, Sara submitted a photo of herself to a Tumblr page ?Love Your Lines? that encourages women to embrace their stretch marks, scars and other imperfections.Her photo garnered 25,000 likes and that was the beginning of her love affair with herself. Her perception of her body changed. She realised that her imperfections make her unique and that gave birth to a new Sara. ?Each imperfection you have is individual to you,? Sara said in a video interview to Barcroft TV, ?and it tells a story about you and who you are, and the struggle and the journey that you have been on.??We are in the generation of albinism models. We have melanin models. We have vitiligo models. We have plus size models. And those are all fabulous things. But the one thing that we are really missing are people with disorders within our everyday commercials,? said Sara. 