Delhi to launch mobile app to locate MCD toilets.
Are you upset with the cleanliness of public toilets in Delhi Do you want to complain but are clueless whom to approach Within two months, Delhis three civic agencies will launch a mobile app, which will help users give a feedback about the toilets condition. MCD officials said once they receive a feedback, teams will be sent to check the public utilities and they would inform private concessionaires managing the toilet. The app will also help find location of all MCD toilets across the city. Users will be able to give feedback if these are not clean or lack basic amenities such as water taps. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation provided location of 900 public utilities; North Delhi Municipal Corporation 350 and EDMC 550. According to the results of the Swachh Survekshan survey 2017, North MCD, SDMC and EDMC ranked 279, 202 and 196 respectively in a survey held across 434 Indian cities on waste management, sanitation conditions and overall cleanliness. Our three agencies are currently busy with the geo-tagging of all public toilets in their jurisdiction. The process included identifying the latitude and longitude location of each toilet and marking them on google map as well so that the people can easily locate them. We are assuming the work to be completed in couple of days, said an official from IT department, South Delhi Municipal Corporation.An official said the app will have a rating scale of Happy, Not Happy and Satisfied. The app users can also identify missing amenities such as no water supply, poor maintenance or repair work, an official said. Devender Kumar, director, department of environment management services said, If it is dirty, we will arrange for its cleaning within hours. But, if it needs repair work, it will be done in a weeks time, he said.A study by NGO Action Aid in December 2016 found that out of 229 toilets surveyed, only 149 had facilities for women. According to the report, out of 229 toilets 70 per cent were not clean, 65 per cent had no flush facility, 50 per cent had no water supply, 70 per cent had no signages and almost 70 per cent were not disabled friendly.