Sonam to be part of Harvard Business School panel for talk.
She played a fearless flight attendant in her award-winning outing as Neerja. Interestingly, in real life too, Sonam Kapoor has always spoken her mind uninhibitedly on a number of subjects  be it womens issues, film industry or the society in general.Now, HT has learnt that Sonam is set to join the Harvard Business Schools (HBS) panel for a special talk. HBS India research centre  as part of the Best of Harvard in South Asia platform  conducts lectures, roundtables, panel discussions and debates around substantive topics that are relevant from an Indian perspective, says an insider.    Life Is a Party. Dress Like It - Audrey Hepburn.  @ralphandrusso,  @amaker7 @thehouseofpixels Go find all my Paris images only in my App! A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Jul 11, 2017 at 4:50am PDT In a couple of days, HBS will launch a Gender Series, wherein the first conversation will be with the schools professor Geoffrey G. Jones on the topic, Beauty: Limiting or Liberating. For the same, the institution has invited Sonam to join the esteemed panel on July 14, wherein she will share insights and participate in the debate too. The event will be curated at a hotel in south Mumbai.    Monsoon Weekend To Do: 1. Stay in my favourite @dandeliondreams.co pyjamas all day  2. Get lots of sugary treats from @poojadhingra  3. Get a great book  4. Repeat  (To see the rest of the images in this series go to my app, link in bio) A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Jul 8, 2017 at 3:12am PDT Sonam will talk about the pitfalls and challenges associated with both the aspects  notions of beauty and the aspiration to look beautiful, says an insider. Last year, Sonam broke the internet with her open letter titled, I didnt wake up like this that busted the myth of flawlessness. Plus, she has also been very vocal about condemning body shaming and embracing individual beauty, says the insider. When contacted, an excited Sonam says: I look forward to joining the conversation conducted by the HBS. I think the subject is very relevant to times that we live in.Follow @htshowbiz for more