Paralympian dies after metal throwing cage falls on him.
Para athlete Abdullah Hayayei has died after being ?struck by a metal pole? during a training incident on Tuesday in London before the upcoming World Para Athletics Championships. The 36-year-old, who represented the United Arab Emirates in the F34 class javelin and shot put at Rio 2016, was training at Newham Leisure Centre in preparation for the championships, which begin on Friday at the London Stadium.The Metropolitan Police said: ?Police, London Ambulance Service and London?s Air Ambulance were called shortly after 17:00hrs on Tuesday, 11 July, to reports of a seriously injured man at Newham Leisure Centre in Prince Regent Lane, E13. The man was pronounced dead at the scene at 17:20hrs. ?At this early stage, it is believed the man was struck by a metal pole which formed part of training facilities at the centre. It can be confirmed that the man was a competitor at the World Para Athletic Championships. His next of kin have been informed. The Health and Safety Executive have been informed.? The incident was witnessed by some of his team-mates as well as coaches and athletes from other competing nations, all of whom have been offered counselling. Majid Al Usaimi, the vice president of the UAE Disabled Sports Federation, told Dubai Sports TV that the pole formed part of the discus cage at the venue. He said: ?We are overcome by grief, all of the UAE delegation here in London, and are truly shocked by this news, but it is God?s will. We cannot discuss the details of the incident but what I can say is that during afternoon practice at the official training venue of the competition, Abdullah was going through his usual training routines, before the metal discus cage fell on his head. The on-site medical staff tried to help him but to no avail.?London 2017 would have been Hayayei?s second World Championships and he was due to compete in the shot put, discus and javelin F34 events. At the 2015 championships in Doha, Qatar, Hayayei came fifth in the discus and finished eighth in shot put. An International Paralympic Committee (IPC) statement said: ?The athlete?s family who are in the UAE have been informed of his death and the UAE team were brought together at the team hotel to be informed of the tragic news.? A moment of silence will be held to remember Hayayei during Friday?s opening ceremony, while further tributes are being planned. Ed Warner, co-chair of London 2017, added: ?This is a devastating event and everyone within the London 2017 organising committee is shocked and saddened. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of Abdullah?s family and team-mates at what is undoubtedly a very difficult time for them. We will be working closely with all the competitors and teams over the days ahead to offer support wherever it is needed.?Newham Leisure Centre, one of two official training venues for the championships, remains closed while a police investigation takes place. 