What were India's achievements with Shastri as director.
The Cricket Advisory Committee comprising of Sourav Ganguly, Sachin Tendulakr and VVS Laxman picked Ravi Shastri as Team India's new head coach on Tuesday after consulting with Team India captain Virat Kohli.Meanwhile, Zaheer Khan has been named bowling coach while Rahul Dravid will be batting coach for overseas tours. WATCH FULL VIDEOThe CAC met on Monday to interview five candidates for the coach's job. Shastri along with Virender Sehwag, Richard Pybus, Tom Moody and Lalchand Rajput were the one's running for the coach's job. However, Ganguly announced in a press conference that followed the interviews that they will only announce the coach after consulting with captain Kohli, who is in the USA. He also said that they're not in a hurry to name someone.However, looks like things were done quickly and Shastri is all set to lead Team India along with Kohli in the upcoming Sri Lanka tour later this month. The 55-year old, who had earlier chose not to apply for the coach's job once Anil Kumble stepped down, changed his mind after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) extended the deadline for the applications to July 9. If reports are to be believed, it was also said that CAC member Sachin Tendulkar had urged him to apply for the post because of his close relationship with the current crop of Indian players.TEAM DIRECTOR (2014-16)Shastri had taken over as Team India's team director back in 2014 after India lost the Test series against England 1-3 while Duncun Fletcher was the coach of the national team. He left his post after the World T20 in India back in 2016, where the home side lost to West Indies in the semis. ('Elder brother' Ravi Shastri faces overseas test as India coach stint begins)Back then, he said that his job was to oversee things and everyone in the team would report to him.Under him, the Indian team won the five-match ODI series in England 3-1.Then the West Indies toured India for five ODIs, a T20I and three Tests. But the Windies went back home due to pay disputes just after the ODI series, which they lost 2-1. India then won the whitewashed Sri Lanka 5-0.India toured Australia towards the fag end of 2014 for a Test series and a triangular ODI series against England and Australia. It is under him that Virat Kohli took over as the full-time Test captain. Kohli led the side in the first Test at Adelaide in Mahendra Singh Dhoni's absence and lost the match by 48 runs. Dhoni then returned for the next two Tests but decided to sit out the last match due to an injury and step down as the Test captain, handing Kohli the full-time captaincy at Sydney -- the match ended as a draw. India lost four-match Test series Australia 2-0 and did not qualify for the finals of the tri-series.But he guided the team to the semi-finals of the World Cup in 2015 Down Under Under, where they lost to eventual champions Australia by 95 runs.NO.1 TEST RANKINGThe lowest point during his term has to be losing the three-match limited-overs series against Bangladesh in 2-1 right before the Sri Lanka series in 2015.But the team bounced back when they toured Sri Lanka for a three-match Test series. This was Kohli's first full-time assignment as the captain. India lost the first match by 63 runs. However, Kohli's men came back strong and won the next two matches to clinch the series 2-1.India lost the following three-match T20 series to the touring South Africans 2-0 and the five-match ODI series 3-2. But they whitewashed the Proteas 3-0. India also became No. 1 Test side and stayed there for eight weeks until Australia took over in February 2016.