CBSE re-evaluation can change DU merit list: Delhi HC.
New Delhi The Delhi high court on Tuesday said the ongoing Delhi University admissions could be impacted by the Class 12 examination answer sheets submitted to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for re-evaluation this year.A bench of acting chief justice Gita Mittal and justice C Hari Shankar said ?the merit position of students could change substantially? on the basis of marks obtained after re-evaluation. ?Therefore, as a matter of abundant caution, colleges and admission-seeking students need to be kept informed about the pendency of the writ petition as well as the fact that the process of re-evaluation of marks by the CBSE on the request of some students is underway,? it added.Last week, the court had lifted all conditions imposed by the CBSE on students seeking to re-evaluate their Class XII answer sheets. The verdict came on a plea filed by advocate Sandeep Bajaj, who was representing four students against the board?s notification limiting the scrutiny of marks to just 12 subjects.Nearly 11 lakh students appeared for the Class 12 exams conducted by the CBSE this year, of which 2.47% applied for re-evaluation.However, Delhi University officials said this need not worry students who have already secured college seats. ?Once a student?s admission is approved and they pay the admission fees, it will not be cancelled even if their marks get reduced after re-evaluation. Admissions will be cancelled only if the student provides the university with fabricated certificates and such,? said MK Pandit, chairperson of the admissions committee.Pandit said there are provisions in the university admission guidelines to accommodate students whose grades have increased after re-evaluation. ?The guidelines clearly state that a student who qualifies under a cut-off list but fails to take admission may do so on the last day of admissions under subsequent cut-off lists, subject to the availability of seats,? he added.Pandit said college principals and students are aware of the stipulations, and clarifications have also been issued in this regard.(With inputs from A Mariyam Alavi)