Kamya claims hackers removed her 'backless' Instagram pic.
Kamya Panjabi, much like her colleagues in the television industry, extended her support to Ekta Kapoors Lipstick Under My Burkha, on social media. She posted a bare back picture and captioned it: They Said that dont be that woman The that other woman..the divorced woman .. the single mother woman .. But I am that woman ..Every time I put in my lipstick on, I smile. because I am being true to myself . Whether the world agrees or not I have made my own dont.. Dont youHowever, after a few hours, the  picture was deleted from her account and that led to speculation that shes backed out from the campaign for the film and that she changed her mind about the bold photo. To end all doubt, Kamya took to Twitter to reveal that her account was hacked and the hacker  deleted the photo, as till date she has never removed any posts from her account. As per sources, she will take the help of police to find out about the hacker.As per Kamya, this is the photo that  the hacker removed from her account.Kamya gave out details about what happened. Open the app. Picture has been removed. News articles claiming my unsure mind led to impulsive upload of nudity and hence took it off. Never posted something I never believed in. Never took off something I once posted. Wore my heart and scares on my sleeves with pride. Happy hacking happy hating. She even put a hastag, I know you know my password. When contacted, the actor said that she has already given out all the details on Twitter and doesnt want to talk more about this.I did not take off a bare piece of clothing off my back. I bared the innermost corners of my soul...!!! #iknowUknowmypassword #instagram pic.twitter.com/OnDyM7Oj9q Kamya Punjabi (@iamkamyapunjabi) July 10, 2017This is not the first time an actors account on the photo sharing app has been hacked. Early this year, Nia Sharmas Instagram account was hacked and she had reported it to the cyber cell. In Bollywood, actors such as Amitabh Bachchan, Shahid Kapoor, Hrithik Roshan, Karan Johar and Shruti Haasan also faced the same thing.    Dinner with my winner....!!!! A post shared by Kamya Panjabi (@panjabikamya) on Feb 10, 2017 at 11:12am PST Kamya, currently seen as Preeto in Shakti - Astitva Ke Ehsaas Ki, is reportedly  in a relationship with Bigg Boss season 10 winner Manveer Gurjar. She recently posted a photo with Manveer and captioned it: very special someone. For those who are not in the know, Kamya met Manveer on Bigg Boss when she was invited as a guest. Kamya praised him and even predicted that he might take the trophy home.Follow @htshowbiz for more