Firing didn't last for over 20secs: Amarnath attack survivor.
It didn?t take much time for the terrorists to create the mayhem in south Kashmir?s Anantnag on Monday night when seven pilgrims were killed and several others injured while returning from the Amarnath cave shrine.Survivors of the terrorist attack said had it not been for the driver of the bus they were travelling in, many more would have lost their lives.Recounting the attack, the survivors said they did not realise what was happening as many were sleeping and the gunmen fired indiscriminately in the dark.?The firing did not last for more than 20 seconds. And, we could not see who was firing as it was dark outside,? said Amit Kumar, a Rajasthan resident who works as a cook for the pilgrims from Gujarat. ?People just rolled on the bus floor one over another,? he said.The bus carrying over 50 pilgrims mostly from Gujarat and Maharashtra was attacked around 8.20pm near Batengoo area on Monday. Police said the terrorists initially attacked a bullet proof bunker in the area and later a check post near Khanabal.?Phataphat marne lage goli, andhere mein kuch samaj nahi aaya (They started firing indiscriminately. We could not fathom anything in the dark),?? Baghimani Thakur, another traveller from Palgad Maharastra, added.Kumar said he survived the attack as he was sitting in the back seat. ?The people sitting near the driver?s cabin bore the brunt but the driver survived,? he said.He added the bus driver Saleem?s presence of mind saved many lives as he did not stop the vehicle even amid the hail of bullets. ?Malik (the owner of the bus) told the driver Saleem: ?Bhai, just rush the bus. Don?t stop?. And the driver just drove the bus at full speed and only stopped when we reached an army camp,? he said.A policeman from Anantnag, who was keeping a watch over two of the injured at the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Srinagar, also corroborated Kumar?s account. He said the bus stopped in Khanabal Chowk and the injured were immediately taken to the army hospital.?After basic treatment at the army hospital, the injured were taken to the district hospital in Anantnag after which the seriously wounded were rushed to Srinagar hospitals,? he said.Prakash Wadani, another survivor, said that the pilgrims had planned to visit Vaishno Devi Shrine in Katra the next day.Kumar said that they left their hotel in Srinagar at 5:30pm and as fate would have it, the bus had a flat tyre. ?It took an hour for us to replace the tyre and that caused the delay,? he said.Daksha, a pilgrim from Dahnu in Maharashtra, said the passengers spent the time chatting on the roadside while the tyre was being changed ?unaware of what lay in store for them minutes later??.All the survivors and injured were airlifted to Delhi on Tuesday morning. Only two of the injured - Pushpa and Lalita ? are being treated at the state?s tertiary care hospital Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Srinagar. Kumar is looking after them at the hospital.Pushpa was hit on her right hip and is recuperating in the emergency ward and Lalita, doctors said, was in the intensive care unit.Police have blamed Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba of the attack, however, the militant outfit denied the charges and its spokesperson Abdullah Ghaznavi called it a ?highly reprehensible act?? and blamed ?Indian agencies?? for the attack.?Islam doesn?t allow violence against any faith. We strongly condemn such acts,?? a LeT statement said.Police insisted that the bus came under fire and was not the ?actual target of the militants??.A senior police officer, who did not want to be named, refused to call the incident a security lapse saying ?the bus had flouted all norms??.?The Amarnath yatris escorted by security cross the Banihal tunnel around 2pm, on Monday the yatris had crossed the area by 1pm. The highway is secured but high security can?t be 24 hours. We don?t allow any movement of yatris or tourists in the area after 5pm,?? he added.?Technically, they were tourists and not yatris so we could not stop them,?? the officer said.Police have said the bus was a private vehicle and not registered with the Amarnath Shrine Board. The passengers had completed the darshan on July 8 and stayed back in Srinagar for sight seeing.Over 2.20 lakh pilgrims paid obeisance at the Amarnath cave shrine - situated at a height of 3,880 metres in south Kashmir Himalayas - during an unrest in 2016 after Hizbul Mujahideen Burhan Wani?s killing in July last year. The number was lowest since 2003.This year the numbers have already crossed 1.5 lakh. The state government has not stopped the pilgrimage and a fresh batch of more than 3000 pilgrims left Jammu for base camps in Kashmir on Tuesday.