Lashkar-e-Taiba carried out attack on Amarnath pilgrims .
Intelligence sources have said three to five Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were involved in the attack on Amarnath Yatra that killed seven pilgrims and injured 14 others, including policemen, when they struck at a bus carrying them on Monday night in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district.According to the sources Ismail, a Lashkar operative from Pakistan, was heading the militant group. He is the Lashker Commander in South Kashmir and has been active in the region for last three years.Bodies of the seven Amarnath pilgrims killed in the attack and 19 injured have been airlifted to New Delhi from Army Base Hospital in Srinagar.Before starting the meeting over vice presidential poll today, Opposition leaders observed two minute silence in respect for the victims of Amarnath Yatra attack.  Mortal remains of #AmarnathYatra pilgrims who lost their lives, brought to Surat, Gujarat. pic.twitter.com/bXD5KiNPSDRAJNATH SINGH CHAIRS MEETINGHome Minister Rajnath Singh chaired a high level meet on Amarnath yatra attack and the situation in Kashmir at 11 am at his residence today. NSA, and chiefs of all other security, intelligence agencies were also present in the meet.DG CRPF has been rushed to Srinagar on instructions of Rajnath Singh and will not be present for the meeting. He will also visit the attack site. NSA Doval will also brief PM Modi on the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir in the back drop of Batengoo terror attack. Jammu and Kashmir Governor NN Vohra and chairman Amarnath Shrine Board have also called high level security meeting at Raj Bhawan in Srinagar.According to the sources, Governor Vohra has called all heads of security agencies including Army corps commander and DG  Police Dr SP Vaid in the meeting to review the security cover to Amarnath yatra after the Monday night attack. Meeting will start at 11 am.YATRA CONTINUESA fresh batch of 3,289 yatris left Bhagwati Nagar Yatri Niwas in an escorted convoy of 185 vehicles around 3 am, on Tuesday for the Valley.Zulfiqar Hasan, IG (Operations), CRPF, said, "The attack is being investigated by Jammu and Kashmir police. Yatra is going on and we will ensure that it goes on peacefully."Meanwhile, authorities blocked internet services in the Valley.On Saturday, the Amarnath yatra was suspended from Jammu side due to law and order situation in the Kashmir Valley which was under curfew in the wake of the death anniversary of militant commander Burhan Wani.MEHBOOBA MUFTI IN ANANTNAGJammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, who visited patients and survivors of the attack in Anantnag, said she did not have enough words to condemn the attack. Office of Mehbooba Mufti confirmed that the CM will stay in Anantnag with families. "She wants to express complete support and solidarity with victims and hence she is not leaving back for Srinagar," it added.    The bus was attacked in Batengoo around 8:20 pm while returning from Baltal to Mir Bazar after darshan. The militants also carried out two attacks on security forces in the area.Police sources said, the militants attacked a mini bus carrying pilgrims from Gujarat. The bus was not officially registered with the Amarnath Shrine Board for the pilgrimage and was without police escort.The Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industries declared a shutdown in Jammu today following Monday night's attack on the Amarnath pilgrims. The Jammu bandh call was supported by the opposition National Conference, which called the attack part of a nefarious design to vitiate the secular fabric of Jammu and Kashmir.  The attack took place hours after the Jammu and Kashmir Police claimed to have busted a Lashkar-e-Taiba module with the arrests of two persons, including Sandeep Kumar Sharma alias Adil, a resident of Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.Also read:Shutdown call in Jammu after 7 Amarnath pilgrims die in terror attack  When 30 Amarnath pilgrims were killed in terror attack 17 years ago 