Lashkar terrorist from UP arrested in Kashmir.
The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday arrested a man belonging to Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar for working as a Lashkar terrorist. He was arrested from an encounter site in Anantnag district.  The arrested terrorist, identified as Sandeep Kumar Sharma alias Aadil, was part of three attacks last month on security forces in the Kashmir Valley. Kumar was behind the killing of SHO Feroz Dar and five other policemen in Anantnag on June 16 and found involved in snatching of weapons from a police camp in Anantnag from a retired judge's home on June 13. He also carried out a terror attack on an Army convoy on June 3.Lashkar terrorists were helped by Sandeep to loot ATMs and indulge in immoral activities in the villages.Inspector General of Police Munir Khan said, "Uttar Pradesh resident Sandeep Sharma, a part of the Lashkar module, has been arrested by the Jammu and Kashmir police. He was a criminal who later got in touch with Lashkar." SANDEEP WAS IN THE VALLEY SINCE 2012"Sandeep was in the same house where dreaded Lashkar militant Bashir Lashkar took shelter. He was in the Valley since 2012.  Bashir Lashkar was killed in an encounter on July 1 in Anantnag. Sandeep was one of the 17 people rescued from encounter site. When police found out that he was a non-local, he was asked about his presence there. He revealed that he was part of the Lashkar group trapped in the house where two Lashkar terrorists, including Bashir Lashkari was killed." On being grilled further, it was learnt that Sandeep, along with other individuals, was involved in hatching criminal conspiracies leading to providing shelter to terrorists and ferrying them from one place to another for terror strikes and actively participating in terrorist activities.He also concealed weapons looted from police guards in a vehicle and shifted them to different locations on the directions of LeT.An investigation is in progress for find out the roles of his accomplices.Also read | Kashmir: 2 terrorists killed as infiltration bid foiled in Nowgam, combing ops onAlso read | Burhan Wani death anniversary: Fear of 2016 violence haunts Kashmir