One killed as Swift Dzire tries to overtake Lamborghini.
Expressway, speed and a rush of adrenaline - the result is always fatal and 28-year-old Asad Malik became the latest victim of speed junkies on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.On Saturday afternoon, Malik's Eeco car was smashed by a Lamborghini that swerved to avoid a speeding Swift Dzire, resulting in his death. Strangely, the same 23-km-long expressway allegedly witnessed an illegal horse race too recently. The act was caught on camera and the video clip went viral on social media websites.The series of incidents not just raise questions on the safety feature of the expressway but also on the role of Noida police which is well-equipped to monitor such stretches. Even after 24 hours of the incident, Noida police have no clue about the identity of the Lamborghini driver involved in the accident. Similarly, the police were caught unaware on the horse-racing incident and are now scanning CCTV footages.INVESTIGATION IN THE CAR ACCIDENTThe investigation in the car accident is also based on the CCTV footage. The police have caught the driver of Swift Dzire and identified him as Mohsin Khan. "All the cars involved in the accident were at a very high speed. CCTV footages show that speeding Swift Dzire was behind the Lamborghini car and tried to overtake it. The driver of Swift lost control and ventured into the lane of Lamborghini, forcing the driver of the sports car to swerve and avoid a collision. However, he smashed an Eeco, leading to Malik's death," said a senior police officer.Malik was a resident of Joshi Colony and was going to Greater Noida for work. "He was brought to hospital, but had no pulse and was declared brought dead. He sustained severe head injuries and was bleeding heavily," said KK Tripathi, a doctor at Jaypee Hospital.Trying to conceal their failure in identifying the Lamborghini driver, Noida police claims Mohsin is the main accused as he lost control. But Mohsin blames the Lamborghini driver for the accident. "The Ecco was racing with the Lamborghini and the accident took place between the two. I have no role in the accident as my car didn't even touch any car involved in the mishap. In fact, to avoid the accident, I had to collide my car with the divider. I stopped at the spot to cooperate in the investigation but police arrested me. I could have fled like the Lamborghini driver," Mohsin said.NO SUCCESS IN KEEPING A CHECK ON SPEED JUNKIESThe speed limit for heavy vehicles on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway is 60 kmph, and for light motor vehicles, it is 100kmph. There are 132 high definition cameras, installed along the expressway, which work under the highway traffic management system (HTMS) and is designed to capture only images of vehicles moving at more than 100kmph. But Noida police have not got much success in keeping a check on speed junkies.On the other hand, a recent video of horse racing on the expressway has put Noida police on the backfoot over successful usage of the high tech system. A viral video shot by an anonymous user has gone viral on social media, which captures around half a dozen jockeys racing on the highway alongside speeding cars.Noida police confirmed the video was shot at the expressway but are unaware when the incident took place. "It is a serious matter and we are scanning cameras installed on the highway to check when the incident took place. We are trying to identify the horse riders," said a senior officer.But the entire incident also punches holes in patrolling along the expressway considered unsafe by users as many incidents of carjacking and robbery have taken place here. For many years Noida expressway has remained a favorite stretch for motorists as it offers non-stop drive till Greater Noida and further connects till Agra via Yamuna expressway. It is easy to spot 1000cc bikes and high-end sports cars cruising on this stretch and often 'illegally' used by motorists to race for money.Also Read:Bangladesh: 17 people killed in road accident in Rangpur