I'm confident Kajol will be there in VIP 3: Dhanush.
The theatres in Tamil Nadu have finally opened after a four-day strike against the state government for imposing a 30 per cent local body tax. Now, Dhanush-Kajol's much-hyped Velai Illa Pattadhaari 2 is all set for a release on July 28. At the press meet of VIP 2, Dhanush, who has written the script and dialogues of the film, confirmed that the franchise would continue and that Kajol would be part of VIP 3.Speaking about the sequel to VIP 2, Dhanush said, "I'm confident Kajol will be there in VIP 3, but I'm not sure if she will be there in VIP 4." There will be #VIP3 and #VIP4.. @KajolAtUN will be there in the sequel.. : @dhanushkraja#VIP2PressMeetpic.twitter.com/qmMY5SkTXLKajol, who won the hearts of the Tamil audience with Minsara Kanavu, is making a comeback nearly after two decades. Dhanush had good things to say about co-star Kajol. "She (Kajol) is returning to Tamil cinema after a gap of 20 years with VIP and we are very proud of it. She is a legend. I was in my 10th standard when she did Minsara Kanavu. I was stunned after watching her on the big screen. We can't forget her performance in Vennilave Vennilave song. It was really fascinating to share screen space with her. My performance went a notch up while performing with her," said Dhanush.. @KajolAtUN says she had an amazing experience working in #VIP2#VIP2PressMeetpic.twitter.com/92Aj0oGdiWOn the other hand, when Kajol was asked to share her experience working with Dhanush and Shah Rukh Khan, she said, "They both are very very fine actors. It has been a very good journey with Dhanush."Soundarya Rajinikanth is helming this instalment, which has music by Sean Roldan."Nobody else could give us Vasundhara Parameshwar. The character is an independent, self-made and stylish women. Kajol didn't have to try hard to pull off that role. She just had to come before the camera," said Soundarya.Produced by Kalaipuli S Thanu, the trailer of Velai Illa Pattadhaari 2 got outstanding response and clocked more than 8 million views.ALSO READ: SS Rajamouli regrets talking about Sridevi's salary, says he made a mistake