Paris to host summit on second anniversary of climate deal.


5.04pm BST
17:04

Were going to wrap up our live coverage of the G20 summit for the day. Thanks so much for joining me. Heres a summary of what happened on the final day of the summit. 

4.39pm BST
16:39

French President Emmanuel Macron says that he has not given up on trying to get Donald Trump to chance his mind over the Paris climate deal. I never despair to convince, because I think it is a duty, given my position, and it is a trait of my character.

4.25pm BST
16:25

Speaking after a day of bilateral discussions at the G20 summit in Hamburg, the prime minister said the UK had led on bolstering the global fight against terror and modern slavery as well as pushing for the implementation of the Paris agreement and boosting international trade.On terrorism, Theresa May repeated past calls for world leaders to do more to disrupt international finance streams for terror groups and to help stop foreign fighters returning to the west from conflicts in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere. She also said the G20 agreed to do more to combat domestic violent extremism and welcomed moves from technology companies to address the online spread of extremist content.The prime minister went on to describe modern slavery and trafficking as the great human rights issue of our time and highlighted the UKs taskforce to combat the issue. She said more needed to be done around thew world and called for a radically new global approach to stopping human traffickers. On the Paris Agreement, the most contentious issue of the summit, May said she was dismayed at the US decision to leave the pact. She urged Trump to rejoin it and said, following questions, that she had pushed the US president to do so in conversations during the Hamburg meeting. May went on to say she was a leading advocate of free trade but admitted some had been left behind by globalisation - an admission she has made repeatedly in the past. She said the UK had pushed for G20 leaders to stop steel dumping practices and to do more to economically empower women. The prime minister added that the UK would work with others to improve international trading systems and to ensure more job opportunities for women. Linking her bilateral meetings to the Brexit process, May said she looked forward to agreeing trade deals with new friends and old partners. Asked about a visit from one of the UKs oldest partners, the US, May said no date had been agreed for Trumps arrival in London. 

4.13pm BST
16:13

Theresa May is now holding a press conference. She said she is dismayed that the US have not changed their mind on withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement, but Trump would still be visiting the UK although a date had not been set.May said: Like other leaders, I am dismayed by the US withdrawing from the Paris agreementShe said had urged president Trump to change his mind and that the UKs commitment is as strong as ever.We play a leading role internationally, she added. Discussions on Syria, violent extremism, modern slavery, women empowerment and trade had been positive, she said. On Brexit she said: Ive been struck by positivity of world leaders at G20 on Brexit trade.Updated
at 4.17pm BST


4.01pm BST
16:01

Oliver MilmanWorld leaders have made clear the USs isolated stance on climate change, with 19 of the G20 countries affirming their commitment to the irreversible Paris climate agreement.After lengthy negotiations that stretched well into Saturday, the final G20 joint statement notes Donald Trumps withdrawal from the Paris deal while stating that the worlds other major economies all still support the international effort to slow dangerous global warming.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said on Saturday she deplored the US exit from the agreement and added she did not share the view of Theresa May, the British prime minister, that Washington could decide to rejoin the pact.Read the full article on the leaders communique here: 

3.58pm BST
15:58

French president Macron said Paris will host a summit on 12 December to make further progress on the 2015 Paris climate agreement and to address its financing issues.Le 12 décembre 2017, deux ans après l'adoption de l'Accord de Paris, la France accueillera un nouveau Sommet de mobilisation sur le climat.On December 12, two years after the Paris (climate) agreement, I will convene a summit to take further action on climate, notably on the financial front, Macron told journalists. He said that the summit would aim to mobilise private and public financing for the projects committed to in the Paris agreement.

3.47pm BST
15:47

Vladimir Putin said he had established a working relationship with US president Donald Trump, speaking at a press conference as the G20 summit draws to a close.The Russian president said thought there were grounds to believe at least partial cooperation with Washington could be achieved. Putin said he felt Trump had accepted Putins assertions that Moscow had not interfered in the US presidential election last year, but that it was best to ask Trump what his views on that were. He said the two leaders at their meeting had agreed to work together on cyber security and said he thought Trump in reality was a different person from the one seen on TV.Putin said Trump had asked him detailed questions regarding allegations that Moscow had interfered in last years US election. He said he had tried to give Trump detailed answers which he said seemed to satisfy his counterpart.The new ceasefire deal in southern Syria was the result of the United States altering its stance and becoming more pragmatic about the situation there, Putin said.He also said that certain pre-cursors had been created for an improvement in relations between Moscow and Washington going forward.

3.30pm BST
15:30

While climate change could not be agreed on, officials did reach a common statement including Trump about the other contentious issue at the summit, trade. However Merkel said discussions on subject with the US had been particularly difficult. The statement retains the G20s longstanding rejection of protectionism. But it also acknowledged that trade must be mutually beneficial and that countries can use legitimate trade defenses to protect workers and industries against being taken advantage of by trade partners.Merkel reiterated her statement that Europeans have to take their fate in their own hands, saying that while cooperation with the US is important, some topics like trade, steel in particular, are difficult to discuss with the Americans. Updated
at 3.47pm BST


3.16pm BST
15:16

In a press conference, Angela Merkel said world leaders have agreed their final communique at the G20 summit.She said 19 members of the Group of 20 have reaffirmed the Paris climate accord as irreversible.She made clear that it had been very difficult to get a consensus and in the end, breaking from tradition, a separate paragraph was included to cover the position of the US, who are withdrawing from the Paris climate change agreement and wanted fossil fuels to be mentioned. The German chancellor said the declaration makes absolutely clear that is not the common position of the other 19 world leaders. Merkel said there had been no compromise on climate change and called the US position regrettable.She said: We amended the declaration and it says very clearly what the United States of America want and underneath what the other countries want.The German chancellor said she deplored the decision by the US to withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement, but said that all other nations agree Paris climate accord is irreversible.Here is the controversial section of the G20 communique:We take note of the decision of the United States of America to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The United States of America announced it will immediately cease the implementation of its current nationally-determined contribution and affirms its strong commitment to an approach that lowers emissions while supporting economic growth and improving energy security needs. The United States of America states it will endeavour to work closely with other countries to help them access and use fossil fuels more cleanly and efficiently and help deploy renewable and other clean energy sources, given the importance of energy access and security in their nationally determined contributions. Directly following that paragraph is this one, as Merkel said in her press conference:The Leaders of the other G20 members state that the Paris Agreement is irreversible. We reiterate the importance of fulfilling the UNFCCC commitment by developed countries in providing means of implementation including financial resources to assist developing countries with respect to both mitigation and adaptation actions in line with Paris outcomes and note the OECDs report Investing in Climate, Investing in Growth. We reaffirm our strong commitment to the Paris Agreement, moving swiftly towards its full implementation in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances and, to this end, we agree to the G20 Hamburg Climate and Energy Action Plan for Growth as set out in the Annex. Read the whole declaration here. Updated
at 3.32pm BST


3.11pm BST
15:11

Reporters in the room keep coming back to the problem of the fossil fuel sentence. Merkel said this into response to how they got round the disagreement:We amended the declaration and it says very clearly what the United States of America want and underneath what the other countries want.Its absolutely clear it is not a common position.We worked on this until noon today.

3.05pm BST
15:05

My colleague Anushka Asthana has more on the problem with the communique. Are we seeing an emergence of a G19Are we seeing the emergence of a G19 of sorts Every country but US agrees to irreversibility of Paris, & Trump isolated on other issues tooA diplo source told me that Macron asked May and Ox PM, Malcolm Turnbull, to step out of G20 session to speak to Trump about climate change"There was a concern that not being able to agree the language on the Paris agreement could hold up the whole summit communique," they said.

2.59pm BST
14:59

Angela Merkel is giving a press conference and says world leaders have agreed their final communique at the G20 summit.She is discussing all the issues that have been discussed including corruption, education, sustainability and female empowerment. The German chancellor said she deplored the decision by the US to withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement. The G20 communique reflects the position of the US, she said, but all other nations agree Paris climate accord is irreversible.Ill post more from the speech as soon as I can. Updated
at 3.09pm BST


2.51pm BST
14:51

Trumps daughter could be taking on the fight against modern slavery if this conversation is anything to go by. Ivanka apparently asked the UK government to send across information on the subject during a chat with May, who brought in landmark anti-slavery legislation while home secretary. PM chatted to Ivanka Trump at G20 - and apparently she raised Britain's work on modern slavery and asked for UK govt to send info on it.

2.35pm BST
14:35

Trump has had another bilateral meeting this time with Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe.Trump began by saying they had discussed trade we made a lot of progress on trade and that he and Abe agreed on the importance of the problem and menace of North Korea.The prime minister is, I will say this, very very focused on what is going on with respect to North Korea.Abe (through translator) thanked Donald for organizing the trilateral summit with Japan-US-South Korea on Thursday and noted that the threat from Pyongyang has become increasingly severe.He said he hoped they could demonstrate robust partnership in the face of that threat.Abe said: As I look at the current situation, particularly the security environment in the Asia Pacific region, including North Korea, we believe that it has become increasingly severe and against such backdrop together with you Donald we would like to demonstrate the robust partnership as well as the bond between Japan and the United States on this occasion.Updated
at 2.36pm BST


2.28pm BST
14:28

Putin has told leaders at the G20 summit that Russia has never interfered in the U.S. election, Russian G20 sherpa Svetlana Lukash reportedly said on Twitter, although the tweet seems to have since been deleted.Pres Putin points to £G20 partners on absence of real evidence of that & confirms that Russia had never interfered in US elections, the tweet read. 

2.08pm BST
14:08

Trump has promised $639 million in funding for humanitarian programmes, including $331 million to help feed starving people in four famine-hit countries - Somalia, South Sudan, Nigeria and Yemen. The US presidents pledge came during a working session of the G20 summit of world leaders in Hamburg, providing a godsend to the UN World Food Programme, the groups executive director, David Beasley, told Reuters on the sidelines of the meeting.Were facing the worst humanitarian crisis since World War Two, said Beasley, a Republican and former South Carolina governor who was nominated by Trump to head the worlds largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide. He said the additional funding was about a third of what the agency estimated was required this year to deal with urgent food needs in the four countries facing famine and in other areas. The WFP estimates that 109 million people around the world will need food assistance this year, up from 80 million last year, with 10 of the 13 worst affected zones stemming from wars and man-made crises, Beasley said. We estimated that if we didnt receive the funding we needed immediately that 400,000 to 600,000 children would be dying in the next four months, he said. Trumps announcement came after his administration proposed sharp cuts in funding for the US State Department and other humanitarian missions as part of his America First policy. Beasley said the agency had worked hard with the White House and the U.S. government to secure the funding, but Trump would insist that other countries contributed more as well. A WPF spokesman said Germany recently pledged an additional 200 million euros for food relief.The United States has long been the largest donor to the WFP.