Manoj Tiwari urges Delhi traders to boycott Chinese goods.
Here's yet another call to boycott Chinese goods in India, this time from the ruling BJP. In the wake of escalating tension along the India-China border, Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari on Friday appealed to Delhi's traders to refuse selling Chinese products as that will be a big blow to the Chinese economy.He said, notwithstanding China's military, its economy was largely dependent on Indian markets and traders here should boycott selling their products to teach the neighbour a lesson. Tiwari was interacting with traders of Khan Market and Hauz Khas Village on Friday evening, regarding their concerns on the roll out of GST.Traders' association of Khan Market said it would ask traders not to sell Chinese goods during the upcoming festive season. "We will write to the traders of Khan Market to boycott Chinese goods. After all it is in the national interest," said Sanjiv Mehra, President of Khan Market Traders' Association.CHINA FRUSTRATED: TIWARIReferring to China in the context of GST, Tiwari said it was troubled by the economic reform in India and the tension on border was an outcome of China's frustration."China is acting like a goonda. It is disturbed by India's growing economic and strategic power. Since India is the biggest market of Chinese goods, we must stop using them. This will affect China's economy the most," Tiwari said.Last year, too, there came up a campaign to boycott Chinese goods in the wake of "Make in India", which escalated after the Uri attack, ahead of Diwali. However, Tiwari noted that last year traders had already stocked large quantities of Chinese products such as firecrackers and lights, and hence feared heavy losses."This year you (traders) should rethink purchasing Chinese products ahead of the festive season," he appealed.Another trader of Khan Market said that he supported the call for boycotting Chinese goods, but sought from the government a hassle-free trading environment within the country so that their business was not affected. He also suggested that awareness should be created among the public about the benefits of GST.About the concerns over GST, Tiwari assured the traders that government would not harass citizens. He said the grievances will be addressed soon.Also Read:Why China will mend ways to defuse border tension and not boast of 1962