Man falls in love with sex worker, rescues her from brothel.
In an unusual love story, where affection blossomed in the most unlikely of places, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Thursday rescued a 27-year-old Nepali woman - a sex worker at GB Road - who wants to marry a local man from Sadar Bazaar.Shubhi met Sagar (names changed) in a local market area of north Delhi two years ago and instantly took a liking to each other. He started visiting her in the brothel in the guise of a customer, hoodwinking the kotha owner each time, and later they decided to get married and begin life afresh.When Shubhi told a few fellow sex-workers about it and tried to escape but failed, Sagar called the DCW helpline and told them their story. A huge contingent of police officers and DCW councilors raided the kotha on Thursday and brought the woman out.COUPLE TO TIE THE KNOT SOON The man says he has already convinced his family about the marriage and he will soon tie the knot with the woman he loves.DCW officials said the local police station will give her protection against any elements from her past life bothering her or trying to defame her now.A senior officer of DCW said, "We got this call a few days ago from a man who said he is in love with a woman from GB Road. He informed us that she is in Brothel no. 68 and keen on leaving this profession and coming along with him."He said that she came from Nepal to India after the disastrous earthquake of year 2015. "She was from a very poor family and lost everything. Due to lack of food and livelihood, she had come to Delhi and someone sold her at GB Road," the officer added.GB OR GARSTIN BASTION ROADGB Road, or Garstin Bastion Road, is the biggest red light area in the national Capital. It runs parallel to a railway line near the New Delhi Railway Station from Ajmeri Gate to Lahori Gate, housing close to 93 brothels and 3,500 sex workers. About 800 children of the sex workers are also said to live here, aided in education and various skills by some NGOs.The DCW Chairperson, Swati Maliwal, has been trying to shut down the notorious business area for a long time. She has gone to the extent of saying that a few senior politicians run GB Road, just a few kilometers from the Indian Parliament.She tried to get contact numbers of owners of the kothas by going through records of electricity companies and the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) who provide them civic amenities.However, her attempts didn't meet much success. Only in May, a 15-year-old minor girl was rescued from GB Road after a customer called up DCW and tipped them off. Girls from areas such as Nepal, Sikkim, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Jharkhand and Sikkim are seen here most often.Swati Maliwal said, "There is huge nexus of traffickers operating in GB road who take advantage of girls in distress and push them into the hell of GB Road. I have serious concerns about it and GB road must be closed down soon."