Actresses who are bad may share the bed: Kerala MP Innocent.
In an interaction with media today, actor, Member of Parliament and President of AMMA Innocent Vareed Thekkethala made unwarranted remarks about the Malayalam cinema industry. Speaking to the media, Innocent said what happened at the press conference held by AMMA last week was unfortunate and that it was not a deliberate attempt to ridicule the media.    Last week, a press conference held by the Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA), with superstars like Mohanlal, Mammootty, Dileep, MLA Mukesh, left-backed MP Innocent, Former Kerala Transport Minister Ganesh Kumar, among others, had not ended well. The journalists assembled were not given the chance to ask questions and instead asked to "have tea and snacks", and leave. When journalists demanded time and answers, Ganesh Kumar and Mukesh lost their cool. Why? Because of the uncomfortable questions directed at them about the Kerala actress' abduction and molestation and about the stand AMMA took in the matter. Those who understand Malayalam, watch the video here:Video courtesy: Manorama News  "IF THEY ARE BAD, THEY MAY SHARE THE BED" AMMA President and Left-backed independent MP Innocent, while speaking to the media today, denied all speculations that he is stepping down as the president of the association. When a journalist asked about casting couch in Malayalam cinema industry, Innocent denied its existence altogether.  Addressing the journalist who raised the question as "sister", Innocent said, "Those days are long gone. The moment you make an imprudent request to a woman in this day and age, it will be shared with people like you. They will speak about it openly." Innocent then said, "But if the women are bad, they may share the bed".    Watch the video Mathrubhumi News shared on YouTube: Meanwhile, the new all-women's association Women in Cinema Collective responded to Innocent's denial of casting couch in the Malayalam cinema industry in a Facebook post. In the post, the collective said that they strongly disagree with Innocent's stand that there is no casting couch in the Malayalam cinema industry. "There is a strict hierarchy in the industry, and many women who look for breaks face the issue of casting couch. Our colleagues Parvati and Lakshmi Rai have openly shared their experiences," said the post. Also Read: