People saw 'Nagina', what's the issue with TV shows: Shastri.
With TV shows focusing on naagins, men having two wives and actors turning into flies and other animals, many feel that TV has now  become regressive. However, actor Narayani Shastri, who will be playing the role of a mother in Rishton Ka Chakravyuh has a different opinion. According to the actor, the small screen is progressive in many ways.Indian television shows women in a  strong light. A woman working as a CEO in an organisation in the show doesnt mean progression. For me, along with it, TV also throws light on women wearing saris and salwar kameez, managing personal and professional lives, and doing everything that is otherwise is considered a mans domain. That justifies progression, says Narayani, adding that her role in her next is also of a strong fiercely independent woman, who is both manipulative and opportunistic, who yet gives utmost importance to her family.     With the beautiful Mahima/ Anami rishton ka Chakravuy promotions  A post shared by Narayani Shastri (@narayanishastri) on Jul 20, 2017 at 2:18am PDTTalking more about the hullabaloo around fantasy fiction shows on small screen, Narayani adds, People who find the naagin concept regressive,  ask them if they watch international shows on vampires. We all know  that audience there loves supernatural and sci-fi shows and how a lot of us here enjoy watching them. In India, we have grown up reading Chacha Chaudhary, Tinkle etc and we have also heard stories about shapeshifters and naagins. They are to us what Batman, Superman and Deadpool are to them.The actor says that if people  enjoy watching these super heroes then why cant  they accept their own heroes I remember when Sridevis Nagina (1986) released people saw it several times. So what is the problem with TV showing such shows Also, we cant forget that India has both urban and rural areas and TV caters to both of them. I am proud of my culture and I believe we all should be, she points out. But, Narayani feels that the visual treatment of the show can be improved. But for sure, the quality of such shows can be made better treatment wise. The improvement would add to its popularity, says the actor.Follow @htshowbiz for more