Time to teach India a bitter lesson: Chinese media.
A Wednesday editorial in a hardline Communist Party-run newspaper called for teaching India "a bitter lesson" and warned Delhi that a military conflict with China would inflict "greater losses than in 1962".With the State media keeping up its harsh rhetoric over the Doklam stand-off, the Global Times said in an editorial, referring to comments made by Defence Minister Arun Jaitley that India in 2017 was different from 1962 and Army Chief General Bipin Rawat saying India was ready for a two-and-a-half front war, "If New Delhi believes that its military might can be used as leverage in the Donglang area, and it's ready for a two-and-a-half front war, we have to tell India that the Chinese look down on their military power. Jaitley is right that the India of 2017 is different from that of 1962 - India will suffer greater losses than in 1962 if it incites military conflicts."The paper, which is published by the official People's Daily but known to reflect hardline views, added, "We firmly believe that the face-off in the Donglang area will end up with the Indian troops in retreat. The Indian military can choose to return to its territory with dignity, or be kicked out of the area by Chinese soldiers."The editorial was the harshest since the June 16 stand-off, which has seen almost daily statements from China's government and media blaming India for the "trespass". China has accused India of triggering the stand-off, which, however, began when the PLA constructed a road into Doklam, which is claimed by Bhutan but referred to as Donglang by China. INDIA INSTIGATING BHUTAN?The editorial echoed the view in China that India was "instigating" Bhutan to protest China's project. "India is acting shamelessly before the international community," the editorial said. "New Delhi's real purpose is to turn the Donglang area of China into a disputed region and block China's road construction there." "India should look in the mirror," it added. "It was not able to refute the evidence of illegal border trespassing and coerced its small neighbour Bhutan to shoulder the blame. India has long treated Bhutan as a vassal state, a rare scene under modern international relations. India's illegal border intrusion is not allowed by international law; besides its suppression of Bhutan must be condemned by the international community. The Indian media claimed in recent days that New Delhi 'shouldn't abandon Bhutan.' India is humiliating the civilization of the 21st Century." The paper said "the Chinese public is infuriated by India's provocation" and added it "believes the Chinese People's Liberation Army is powerful enough to expel Indian troops out of Chinese territory."INDIA'S UNRULY ACTIONS? Echoing what the Chinese envoy in Delhi said on Tuesday on China not making concessions, it said, "New Delhi would be too naive to think that Beijing would make concessions to its unruly demands.""We hope India can face up to the hazards of its unruly actions to the country's fundamental interests and withdraw its troops without delay," it said. "We need to give diplomatic and military authorities full power to handle the issue. We call on Chinese society to maintain high-level unity on the issue. The more unified the Chinese people are, the more sufficient conditions the professionals will have to fight against India and safeguard our interests. This time, we must teach New Delhi a bitter lesson."Another commentary in the newspaper authored by Yang Siling, vice director of the Institute for South Asian Studies at the Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences, said "India instigated Bhutan to lodge a protest with China.""Displaying toughness against China can help the ruling party score political points," wrote Yang. "India dragging Bhutan into the latest border row was also meant to demonstrate that South Asia is India's strategic backyard and warn other South Asian countries not to side with China.""Any wise politician could realise that China and India both gain from peaceful coexistence and lose from conflict. Unfortunately, Modi seemingly is more prone to seeking India's interests at the expense of China's," Yang added, saying "the latest provocation will not be the last from India over the border issue". 