Man in wheelchair plans skill development camp for disabled.
Mohammad Imran Qureshi was 17 when he lost his eyesight. Doctors said the resident of Gyanipur village in Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur district had multiple sclerosis, a long-term disease that attacks the brain and central nervous system.After about 18 months of treatment, Imran regained his vision. But his troubles did not end. Two years later, in 2009, paralysis struck both his legs. His family took him to Mumbai where doctors declared that his condition was incurable and he had to use a wheelchair. "My parents decided to bring me back to the village, but I insisted on staying and joined the rehabilitation centre run by the Mumbai Paraplegic Foundation," recalled Imran, now 27.Things then started taking a turn for the better and in the next couple of years Imran began performing various acrobatics and synchronised acts."My colleagues gave me the nickname 'wheelchair man of India' and I started exploring opportunities," he said.ROLE IN AKSHAY KUMAR-STARRER HOLIDAYIn a surprising twist of fate in 2014, he bagged the role of a disabled army commando in the Akshay Kumar-starrer Holiday. His talent does not run out here. Imran is a painter, a swimmer, a netball player, a wheelchair performer, etc, and has won many accolades."Since childhood I was interested in drawing caricatures and painting. I also used to go to our local pond with friends and enjoyed swimming, until I fell ill," recalled Imran.However, he pursued his passion for swimming even during rehabilitation and apart from winning some competitions there he also won a gold medal in a state- level swimming contest held in Jalandhar last year. "I also won the first prize in the state-level painting competition that was held in Gujarat in 2014," he informed with delight.Apart from living his life, Imran now wants others like him to become self- reliant and make their families proud.SKILL DEVELOPMENT CAMP"Generally, society and even some parents do not accept us as normal human beings," he said.Imran plans to organise a 45-day skill development camp for the physically disabled and he will start it from his native place, Sultanpur. The camp was slated to begin from July 2 but he postponed it by a week because of some family problems."The training will include becoming self-reliant, personal care, day-to-day activities, using the wheelchair to its capacity, moving around at public places as well as on difficult terrain, first aid, etc," Imran described.A renowned surgeon of Sultanpur, Dr Sadiq Ali, has offered him space in his nursing home for the workshop.