Cow vigilantes attack drivers transporting cattle in Assam.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's stern warning to self-proclaimed cow vigilantes seems to have fallen on deaf ears as a group of men attacked a truck drivers transporting cows in Guwahati. The incident took place on Sunday (July 2). According to reports, a group of cow vigilantes stopped three vehicles transporting cows and beat up the drivers on the outskirts of Guwahati. The incident took place near Sonapur some 30 km from capital Guwahati. The vehicles were coming from Tinsukia in Upper Assam when the members of the Hindu Yuva Chhatra Parishad's unit stopped them  and asked the drivers to step out. The men then brutally thrashed the drivers accusing them of cow smuggling.A Hindu Yuva Chhatra Parishad leader Bikash Bordoloi said, "These people smuggle cattle across the border to Bangladesh. They transport them in miserable conditions. We caught them red handed yesterday. In one vehicle they pack 40 - 50 cattles where there is space for only ten animals. We found some of the animals had their limbs fractured. But police remain blind to their plight and take bribe from these traders. We confiscated the vehicle and reported it to police but cops came two hours late." Meanwhile, Assam Police Director General Mukesh Sahay assured that a probe was being conducted into Sunday's incident and the perpetrators won't be spared. However, the DGP also admitted that it was not possible for the police to prove adequate security to all cattle traders across the state and will be dealt with case to case basis. 'NOT ACCEPTABLE' Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last week said that killing of people in the name of cow protection is not acceptable. PM Modi's remarks came amid a spurt of attacks by cow vigilantes and a wave of protests.Delivering a speech to mark the centenary of the Sabarmati ashram in Ahmedabad and 150th birth anniversary of Shrimad Rajchandraji, a guru to Mahatma Gandhi, Modi said unleashing violence against others went against the ideals of the Father of the Nation."Killing people in the name of 'gau bhakti' is not acceptable. This is not something Mahatma Gandhi would approve," he said."Let's all work together. Let's create the India of Mahatma Gandhi's dreams. Let's create an India our freedom fighters would be proud of," the prime minister said."No person in this nation has the right to take the law in his or her own hands," he said.The Prime Minister's remarks came against the backdrop of growing incidents of cow vigilantism. A Muslim youth was last week killed on board a Mathura-bound train by people who taunted his family and repeatedly called them "anti-nationals" and "beef eaters"."Violence never has and never will solve any problem. As a society, there is no place for violence," Modi said.Last week, thousands of people across the country took to the streets in a citizens' protest named 'Not in My Name' against the recent incidents of mob killings.(With inputs from Indrajit Kundu) ALSO READ:When PM Narendra Modi ripped into self-styled cow vigilantesInstead of admonishing cow vigilantes, it's time PM Modi acted against them