'Chant Jai Shri Ram or we'll set car on fire', Muslim told.
For Munne Bharti, June 28 was supposed to be an uneventful day. Along with his parents and wife, Bharti, a reporter and social worker, was driving down to visit a sick relative in his native village in Bihar. The drive, however, turned out to be one filled with horror and one that made Bharti fear for his and his family's life after a large group of people he identified as Bajrang Dal activists accosted them and made Bharti chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. That would not have happened if his wife wasn't wearing a nikab and if his father had shaved that day, Bharti indicated in a Facebook post recounting the incident. On June 28, Bharti and his family were on their way to Rahimbad, a village in Bihar's Samastipur district located around 75 kilometers north east of capital Patna. As the family neared their destination, they got caught in a traffic jam at Margan Chowk on National Highway 28. Bharti says he and family joined the line of trucks that had been halted by people who seemed to Bajrang Dal activists. They were sporting saffron scarves around their necks and were chanting 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans, Bharti recounts. "As they neared my car, I asked them what the commotion was about," Bharti says. In response, Bharti says, a few of the alleged Bajrang Dal men looked inside his car and noticed his father, who had a beard, and his wife, who was wearing a nikab. "On seeing this, their sloganeering intensified, and before I could understand what was going on, two people shoved their heads into the car through the windows and said, 'Chant Jai Shri Ram or we will set your car on fire', sending me in shock," Bharti recounts in his Facebook post. Fearing for his and his family's life, Bharti goes on to describe how he immediately did what he was asked to, and chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' so that he and his family could escape from the spot alive. 'RESPECT RAM'"I respect all religions and respect Ram from the bottom of my heart," Bharti says in his Facebook post. "I do not have a problem with chanting Jai Shri Ram, but the fear-filled manner in which I was made to do that [on that day] was not nice," Bharti says. Having followed the men's commands, Bharti and his family quickly escape from the location, taking another route to Rahimbad. After driving for a few minutes, Bharti stopped and tweeted to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar recounting his ordeal in a short sentence. He also called up Janata Dal (United)'s Neeraj Kumar and Samastipur MLA Akhtarul Islam Sahin, informing them about the episode and requesting that police be sent to the location to prevent any untoward incidents. @NitishKumar рд╕рдорд╕рддре?рдкре?рд░ рд?ре? рдорд╛рд░рд?рди рд?ре?рд? рдкрд░ рдмрд?рд░рд?рд? рджрд▓ рдире? рдире?рд╢рдирд▓ рд╣рд╛рд?рд╡ре? рд?ре? рд░ре?рд?рд╛, рдоре?рд░ре? рд?рд╛рд░ рд?ре? рд░ре?рд? рд?рд░ рд?рд╣рд╛ рд?рдп рд╢ре?рд░ре?рд░рд╛рдо рд╡рд░рдирд╛ рд?рд╛рд░ рдлре?рд?рд? рджре?рд?рд?ре?,рд?рд╛рди рдмрд?рд╛рд?рд░ рд╡рд╛рдкрд╕ pic.twitter.com/lXrBH7FIYOAfter reaching Ramhimbad, Bharti postponed his departure for Delhi, saying in another Facebook post that a day after the incident, he was still fearful for his life. "I was too afraid to drive back on the same route," he said. The episode left Bharti filled with fear but it did not affect his reverence for Ram. а"Even after my experience, my faith in God Ram hasn't decreased one bit," Bharti ended his original Facebook post.