Amit Shah holds meeting at Goa Airport, man files complaint.
A day after BJP president Amit Shah addressed a public meeting at the Goa airport complex, a lawyer-activist has filed a complaint against party chief and Manohar Parrikar terming the meet as "gross abuse of power". BJP national president Amit Shah was addressing the 'illegal' meeting wherein Chief Minister Manohar Parikkar was also present. Not only is congregation of people barred outside airports but it is also against rules laid down by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. However, the public meeting was organised at the Goa International Airport. Chairs were arranged, speakers were put in place and the dais was ready before Amit Shah's arrival, around 11 am. All arrangements were made even as Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which is entrusted with security of all Indian Airports, allegedly behaved indifferently.Union minister Sripad Naik, local party chief Vinay Tendulkar and minister Mauvin Godinho were present in the public meeting. At least a few hundred people assembled in thE limited periphery right outside the Dabolim airport. ACTIVISTS DEMANDS AN FIR BE FILEDThis prompted lawyer and activist Aires Rodrigues to formally put forward a complaint with the Secretary of Civil Aviation, Chief Secretary of Goa as well as the DGP of the state. In a very strongly worded letter that India Today is in exclusive possession of, Rodrigues wrote, "It constitutes act of unlawful assembly as defined in section 141 (IPC) by which not only mischief has been caused but also other people who were arriving at or departing from the airport, were restrained by the blockage due to the public meeting".Rodrigues not only demanded that an FIR be registered against the organisers but also all dignitaries including Amit Shah. He also demanded action against the public servants responsible for the security of the area for dereliction of duty. Though no official statement has come so far from the Bharatiya Janata Party, the state Congress was quick to hit out calling it 'abuse of power'.