I'm not dating Taapsee Pannu, she's my dearest friend: Saqib.
Ever since Saqib Saleem and Taapsee Pannu appeared together in the music video of Tum Ho Toh Lagta Hain, the grapevine has been buzzing with rumours of their budding love. However, when Hindustan Times asked Saqib about Taapsee, he said that he was not in a relationship with her."I am not dating her yaar. Few people have asked me this question and this is what I keep telling them. Taapsee is my dearest friend, and there is nothing more than that," the actor told the publication. The two are set to reunite onscreen in the upcoming film Makhna.Apparently, on Taapsee's birthday last year, Saqib took her out and planned an elaborate surprise for her. Their pictures with each other on their social media accounts added fuel to the fire. But Saqib insisted that a mountain was being made of a molehill.When reality is better than fiction! #onsetcraziness@saqibsaleempic.twitter.com/uIGhGtOjFOFlowers all around !!A post shared by Saqib Saleem (@saqibsaleem) on Aug 4, 2016 at 6:55am PDT"The thing is that woh bhi Dilli ki laundi hai, aur main bhi Dilli ka launda hoon (She is a Delhi girl and I am a Delhi boy). So, we are really comfortable in each other's company. She has an amazing sense of humour, and I love spending time with her. Woh bahot chill laundi hai (she is a chilled out person)," he said.Saqib added, "I keep telling her that she should behave like an actor. But she tells me she doesn't have that vibe, and she can't behave that way. That's why I say she is a very easy and comfortable person to be with. But, we are not dating each other, except on-screen for our next film."Incidentally, Taapsee had confirmed to IndiaToday.in earlier this year that she was in a relationship. Without naming the man in her life, she had said, "I'm extremely proud of my relationship status and the person I'm with." The Naam Shabana actor added that the only reason she did not announce her relationship was because she did not want her personal life to be discussed more than her work.