Will give opinion only if BCCI asks: Kohli on coach debate.
While the Indian cricket team's search for the new head coach continues following the Anil Kumble's resignation, skipper Virat Kohli on Thursday insisted that his team are currently entirely focussing on their ongoing limited-overs series against West Indies and not on anything else.Speaking on the eve of India's third ODI  against the Caribbean side at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium, Kohli said that the appointment of the new coach is in BCCI's control and that his side's priority is to just focus on their game and win the ongoing series."Right now, we have series at hand and this is what we are focused on. The process is taking place. That is something which is in control of the BCCI. The process is always in place. We, as a team, are focussing on the series right now. We will not focus on anything else at the moment. Our priority is coming here and winning this series and preparing for the game that lies ahead of us," the 28-year-old told the reporters here.When quizzed whether he has any say on the appointment of the coach, the swashbuckling batsman said that they only voice their opinion as a team and that there is no individual view involved."From personal point of view, I can't pinpoint anything or give details. We as a team voice our opinions only when being asked by the BCCI to give our suggestions. So, that is something we have always gone through as a process. That is something that we respect as a team," Kohli said.He further explained, "When asked it has been asked together. It is not like segregation of anything. So we respect that process. And the same procedure if and when takes place. We will give our suggestions to the BCCI."The head coach position has been vacant since Anil Kumble's resignation following India's 180-run defeat against arch-rivals Pakistan in the Champions Trophy final at the Oval on June 18.Former Indian cricketer Lalchand Rajput, Dodda Ganesh, Richard Pybus and Tom Moody and former Indian opener Virender Sehwag have all applied for the post.