Presidential poll a fight of ideologies: Meira Kumar.
The Congress-led Opposition's President nominee Meira Kumar today described the contest with BJP's candidate Ram Nath Kovind as a 'fight of ideologies'.Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Meira Kumar thanked all the Opposition parties for unanimously picking her as a consensual candidate to contest the July 17 Presidential election."Sad caste is a factor in election. This is the election for the highest post in the country. This is not a political war but a fight of ideologies. I am pained by discussion over my caste. Why doesn't the society rise above these divisions," the former Lok Sabha Speaker said responding to a question about her and Ram Nath Kovind's caste. Both Kumar and Kovind are Dalits.  "Some ideologies benefit the weaker sections of the society, some don't. We will not tolerate atrocities on Dalits and weaker sections. I want complete destruction of caste system," Meira Kumar said.She also played down the issue of Nitsh Kumar's Janata Dal-United (JD-U) deciding to support NDA's Kovind and not her . "Such things happen in politics. I will decide what to do at an appropriate time," Meira Kumar said.  Meira Kumar, daughter of former deputy PM and prominent Dalit leader Jagjivan Ram, said she would begin her campaign from Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat where Mahatma Gandhi numerous years.Meira Kumar had earlier appealed to members of the electoral college to "heed the inner voice of conscience" while casting their vote in the July 17 election and said the President's office "cannot function to serve narrow political interests".In a statement, she stressed that the post of President of India is "not symbolic" and that "capability and experience must always supersede" every other consideration while choosing the person for the post.ALSO READ:Meira Kumar joins Twitter ahead of presidential election. Will she take on Sushma Swaraj nowDay after Sushma attacks Meira Kumar with a 2013 video, Congress takes Swaraj down memory lane