Donald Trump accepts PM Modi's invite to visit India.
US President Donald Trump has accepted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's invite to visit India, the White House said in a statement shortly after the two world leaders met in Washington. India's Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar, who accompanied Modi to the US, confirmed the development saying, "Yes, President Trump has accepted PM's invitation to visit India". He added that apart from that he has no additional details. Earlier, while delivering a joint statement at the White House's Rose Garden, Modi, standing along side Trump, said, "I would like to invite you to India, along with your family. And I hope that you will give me the opportunity to welcome you and host you in India.Modi also separately invited Trump's daughter Ivanka to the US delegation to the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in India that will be held later this year. "And I believe she has accepted," Trump said.Thank you, Prime Minister Modi, for inviting me to lead the U.S. delegation to the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in India this fall. pic.twitter.com/ZNwmTTnGYDModi was welcomed by Trump and First Lady Melania Trump at the White House, where the two leaders held extensive talks, including one-on-one interactions. This was the first time Modi and Trump, who have previously spoken on the phone, met. Modi also became the first world leader whom Trump hosted at the White House for a working dinner. 'TRUE FRIEND'During their joint statement, Trump repeatedly thanked Modi for visiting the US and the White House, saying he enjoyed their "very productive conversation"."During my campaign, I pledged that if elected, India would have a true friend in the White House.  And that is now exactly what you have - a true friend," he said.President Trump also lauded PM Modi's efforts for launching the Goods and Services Tax (GST) describing it as the "largest tax overhaul in India's history".Modi appreciated the "warm welcome" accorded to him by President Trump and First Lady Melania and said, "We consider the USA as our primary partner for India's social and economic transformation in all our flagship programs and schemes."(With inputs from agencies)ALSO READ:Don't allow your soil to breed terror: PM Narendra Modi, US President Donald Trump to PakistanIndia, US global engines of growth: All that PM Modi, President Trump said