Kapil and I like Shah Rukh, Salman of TV: Krushna Abhishek.
Krushna Abhishek is gearing up to present a different kind of entertainment for his audience. His new show, The Drama Company, will feature skits, plays and even spoofs of films. I am nervous and anxious about the concept, as it isnt what people expect from me, says the actor. The show will air on the same channel as Krushnas rival actor-comedian Kapil Sharmas comedy show. It was rumoured that Krushnas show would replace The Kapil Sharma Show, but they turned out to be false. Krushna says he made a conscious decision to take up this show. He says, After a certain point, you are bored and the audience is too. I was tired of doing the same thing for years. I wanted to do something new and different, and this new show will be unlike my earlier show, Comedy Nights Bachao, and even Kapils show. It will have more situational comedy rather than the one-liners I used to do. People will see a new side of me, as I will play a variety of roles, which will be a departure from the typical entry and dance performance that I used to do.     With one of my fav Ali bhai on our first promo shoot. What a lovely team it's wonderful to meet all after so long  A post shared by Krushna Abhishek (@krushna30) on Jun 24, 2017 at 2:08am PDT The show will star actors Ali Asgar and Sugandha Mishra, and will also have Preeti Simoes, the ex-creative director of Kapils show. Ask him about his competition with Kapil, and Krushna says, People have always pitted us against each other. Our popularity and our careers are linked in some way. Kapil and I are like Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan of TV. But unlike these superstars, we are not friends. We dont talk to each other, but when we do, we respect each other. One should appreciate talent, and we are both very talented. I am waiting for the day when we both get an opportunity to work together. There is no competition with Kapil, but now that Ali and others are in my show, people will link it to Kapil again, saying they left him to join me. But this is just a coincidence.    With dada the superstar so happy dada joined our drama company. So nervous n excited  A post shared by Krushna Abhishek (@krushna30) on Jun 23, 2017 at 5:00am PDT While Krushna denies any rivalry with Kapil on a personal level, he is aware that people will compare them and their shows. There will be a race for ratings. Our shows will air back-to-back. Both of us will try to give our best to our shows, and we will give tough competition to Kapil. We are bit scared, but are working hard to deliver quality product.In a strange coincidence, Krushnas Comedy Nights Bachao had also aired on the same channel as Kapils earlier show, Comedy Nights With Kapil did. Ask him if he is following Kapil to different channels, and Krushna says, No. I think every channel wants us, and it is pure coincidence that we land up on the same channel together. Channels want the best talent.     Aa Gaya hero coming soon. . Excited to watch my mama. Fingers crossed  A post shared by Krushna Abhishek (@krushna30) on Mar 4, 2017 at 3:18pm PST Krushna says its not yet clear if actor-comedian Sunil Grover will join his show. It was reported that he will be on the show, but nothing is confirmed yet. Everyone who is on board is due to Preetis relationship with them. I havent spoken to Sunil, but would love to work with him.Follow @htshowbiz for more 