US Press Secy wishes India '70th independence anniversary'.
India celebrates 70 years of freedom this August 15, but White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has wasted no time to wish our country and its citizens. Addressing his daily press briefing, Spicer was asked about the upcoming Donald Trump-Narendra Modi meeting at the White House. In response, Spicer said that he'd first like to "wish the people of India a happy 70th anniversary on their independence."The question, asked by a reporter identified only as 'Goyal', was about the expectations from Trump and Modi's June 26 meeting in Washington, DC. The two leaders are meeting for the first time; notably, Modi will become the first world leader with whom Donald Trump sits down for a working dinner. Answering the question, Spicer said President Trump and Prime Minister Modi will "discuss ongoing cooperation, including counter-terrorism, defense partnership in the Indo-Pacific region, global cooperation, burden-sharing, trade, law enforcement, and energy.  I think it's going to be a very robust discussion." PM Modi has already left for his US visit, which includes a stopover in Portugal today. Modi will arrive in the United States on Sunday and will meet Trump on Monday. Spicer's comment on wishing India on its independence was not followed up by a reporter's comment, so it remains unclear whether the press secretary was merely wishing India in its 70th independent year.Here is the full exchange (courtesy the White House) where Spicer speaks about the Trump-Modi meet and wishes India (the full transcript of Spicer's briefing can be found here): "Q    Take one question, Sean?MR. SPICER:  I know because Goyal has got a visit coming on Monday, so he gets a question on Friday.Q    Thank you, sir.  Two questions.  MR. SPICER:  Are you excited?Q    This will be the first face-to-face meeting --MR. SPICER:  It will.Q    Yes, sir.  This will be the first --MR. SPICER:  Better get ready.Q    -- face-to-face meeting between President Trump and Prime Minister Modi.  So is President Trump ready to accept him and welcome him, because both have the same dream?  Prime Minister Modi is saying "Make in India," and President Trump is saying "Buy American," and make in America -- or "Hire American."  So my question is, so much is there on the plate when Prime Minister Modi arrives here.  He's saying that he will have a great meeting with the President because we have many things in common, as far as US-India relations are concerned. So what can we expect between the two leaders?MR. SPICER:  Well, first, I want to wish the people of India a happy 70th anniversary on their independence.  But during the meeting, the President and the Prime Minister will discuss ongoing cooperation, including counter-terrorism, defense partnership in the Indo-Pacific region, global cooperation, burden-sharing, trade, law enforcement, and energy.  I think it's going to be a very robust discussion.Q    And a separate question, please --MR. SPICER:  Yeah.Q    Thank you.  On Wednesday, June 21st was the International Day of Yoga, which was declared by the United Nations three years ago under the leadership -- initiative by Prime Minister Modi.  Any citation you think President Trump will issue?  Or what he has -- any message as far as yoga is concerned?  Because yoga means less trips to the doctors and hospitals.  MR. SPICER:  I don't have -- (laughter) -- anything on yoga at this point.  But I appreciate the --Q    Show us a stance.  (Laughter.)"