Chandan Prabhakar rejoins Kapil Sharma's show after 3 months.
Good news for The Kapil Sharma Show fans who were praying for the former team members to return to the show. At least a part of their prayers has been answered. Chandan Prabhakar, who played chaiwala Chandu on the show, has started shooting for the show again. He confirmed the news in a FB live chat, saying, "he's coming back to the show" and "he missed the show a lot."Revealing the reason behind the break, he says, "jab kapde par paani pad jaata hai, to sookhne mein time lagta hai (it takes time for a drenched cloth to dry)." The comedian said he needed time off from the show and now he was ready.He further elaborated on why he re-joined the show after mid-air tiff with Kapil. "See every action has an equal and opposite reaction. We are like family; I have spent half of my life with Kapil. If I make it a big issue, saying Mujhe zindagi mein tere saath kaam nahi karna then it's not right. It's OK if I reacted then, but I can't stretch it for life. In a family, two brothers fight but that does not mean that they leave each other forever," he told Spotboye.Chandan also reavealed that Kapil tried his best to reconcile and also came to his house to see his newborn daughter."He called me many times. He came to my house with his family to see my newborn daughter and meet my family. So I realised that I should not hold a grudge for life," he said.Chandan denied being approached for Sony TV's new show and said that he was just taking rest during his break and didn't take up any shows unlike Sunil Grover, Ali Asgar and Sugandha Mishra. "If anything happened between me and Kapil, that is a personal thing. It does not mean that I will gang up with someone else," said Chandan.The comedian also has a reply for those questioning his self respect. "I know people are questioning my self-respect but what about love I have spent thirty years with Kapil and I can't lower my love for respect. I don't care about what people think as I want to live with my choice," he told Spotboye. In the meanwhile, it's celebration time on the sets of TKSS, as Chandan gets set to serve tea again, while tickling our funny bones.