If need arises, will consider alliance with Rajinikanth: OPS.
Ever since Edappadi Palaniswami (EPS) has been functioning as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu and keeping his cards close to the chest on party issues, former chief minister and his rival O Paneerselvam has maintained a stoic silence. In a rare and exclusive interview to India Today, O Panneerselvam, who is heading the AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) faction, talked about Tamil Nadu politics and even Rajinikanth.With speculations around Rajinikanth's possible entry into politics gaining ground, Panneerselvam said that the decision to join politics is an individual's choice. He, however, added that if the need arises, he will consider an alliance with Rajinikanth.  OPS HITS OUT AT EPSPanneerselvam (OPS) said that EPS continues to function under the guidance of jailed AIADMK (Amma) leader Sasikala Natarajan.AIADMK (Amma) deputy general secretary TTV Dinakaran is not forming a rival faction as everyone is working hand in glove, said O Panneerselvam (OPS)."We have demanded that the party be run by the cadre and people of the state. We formed the merger committee hoping that they (EPS) would also prefer this. But they were not up for it," OPS said.MODI A DYNAMIC PMPanneerselvam is all praise for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "He has ensured a clean and corruption-free government. He is a dynamic Prime Minister," said OPS, whose camp today pledged support to NDA presidential nominee Ram Nath Kovind.  On Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's (DMK) allegations that the BJP is controlling the OPS camp, Panneerselvam said, "I am a seasoned politician and I take my decisions. Why should I be dictated by someone".NO LINKS WITH SEKHAR REDDYPanneerselvam said that he has no information on Jayalalithaa's will but maintained that "Amma never wanted Sasikala family in the party. She never accepted any of them back in the party. Only Sasikala returned, but at a personal (and not political) level".Panneerselvam, however, denied charges of corruption and horse trading and alleged links with mining baron Sekhar Reddy."In Koovathur, only Sasikala camp gave money. If I had given money, I would have formed the government... Also, I have no links with Sekhar Reddy. When I was a minister, he took a picture with me," said OPS.For now, OPS wants to focus on strengthening the party cadre and preparing for a possible mid-term Assembly election in the state.ALSO READ:Sasikala still controls AIADMK, will decide on support to BJP candidate in presidential election, says nephew