Delhi crime rate down by 31%, cops solved 65% cases in 2017.
Crime is down in Delhi and the police's solve rate is up, data in possession of Mail Today shows.With effective ground policing and the formation of core teams at the district level, city cops have managed to slash the crime rate by 31.54 per cent and crack many more heinous crimes compared to last year. The solve rate has gone up by 16.77 per cent.Senior officials believe that this could happen only because of the change in policing methods brought about by commissioner Amulya Kumar Patnaik.The official data also reveals that incidents of dacoity have gone down by 21.05 per cent, and this year Delhi Police managed to solve 93.33 per cent of the cases. Instances of robbery have gone down too. In 2016, up to May 15, as many as 2,177 such cases were reported, compared to 1,180 in the same period this year. Cops managed to solve 45.15 per cent of the cases in 2015, while the figure this year is 65.42 per cent.'IN THE FUTURE, CRIME RATE WILL GO DOWN'The Capital has often been tagged with the dubious distinction of being India's most unsafe metropolitan city. Giving credit to foot patrolling and effective investigation by special teams formed in all districts, senior Delhi Police officials said, "In the near future the crime rate will go down and whenever a case will be reported it will be solved." This year, 740 cases of rape were reported till May 15, compared to 802 in 2016. And cops have cracked 77.30 per cent of the cases reported this year. Senior officials added that one of the reasons behind the improving solve rate is promotions of cops and power of investigation granted to them.Patnaik, who took charge as Delhi's police commissioner on January 31 this year, is the man behind the promotions as he believes that promoting cops will not only help in reducing pendency files but will also boost their morale, sources said. In 2016, as many as 18,702 personnel were promoted by granting "special grade designation". This includes 9,364 head constables to assistant sub-inspectors and 933 constables to head constables. A total of 51 inspectors were also promoted to ACP, 117 sub-inspectors to inspectors, 596 ASI to sub-inspectors. Not only this: 1,923 personnel were promoted for functional requirements under the comprehensive scheme. PATNAIK 'VERY COMPETENT IN ADMINISTRATION AND INVESTIGATION'Patnaik, a 1985-batch IPS officer, will be on his post for the next three years. He was previously the special commissioner (administration) in Delhi Police.When he became the commissioner, Mail Today had reported that senior officers described Patnaik as someone who has a deep knowledge of policing and the law and order situation."He is very competent in administration and investigation. He will make police work on the ground," an official said in January.Since then, sources say the top cop has kept a tight vigil on crime trends and regularly conducts meetings with the district heads to guide them on how to curb offences and solve cases.Not only has the efficiency of solving heinous crimes improved but the number of street crimes cracked by cops has also gone up. Be it snatching, burglary or motor vehicle theft, this year Delhi Police managed to solve most cases.Around 33.82 per cent of snatching cases have been solved, compared to 19.28 per cent last year.In February, as reported by MAIL TODAY, Patnaik had formed core teams, special investigation teams and law and order research teams in every district to solve all the cases.Also, special trainings are being given for better policing. The law and order research team comprises officials till inspector rank. It helped the cops improve policing methods, said officials.ALSO READ | Delhi man plans surprise for wife, strangles her to death with clutch wire in park