Poster asks people to recognise 110 BJP leaders or lose jobs.
The action against a couple of lower level employees in Gujarat for not recognising the BJP leaders is snowballing into a controversy. A poster sprung up in Ahmedabad embarrassing the ruling BJP.The poster has the pictures of 110 senior BJP leaders of the state, including those of party's national president Amit Shah and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. The caption on it says: "Identify the leaders or you will lose your job."This situation arose after action was taken against two employees - a sanitation worker and a security guard - for not recognising the BJP leaders.Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation's standing committee chairperson Manubhai Patel suspended a sanitation worker after the latter allegedly did not recognise him during a surprise visit.In a similar incident a few days ago, a security guard could not recognise Gujarat Assembly Speaker Ramanlal Vora during the latter's visit to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital.While the security guard lost his job, contract of the security agency was reportedly also terminated.Following the two incidents, some unidentified people pasted bills in Gandhinagar. The posters had photographs of 110 leaders, including top politicians and MLAs of the state. The posters had the pictures of Vijay Rupani, Amit Shah and BJP legislators. The photographs of Assembly Speaker Ramanlal Vora and GMC standing committee chairman Manubhai Patel were published prominently.A caption taking a dig at the incident and says on the poster asks the employees to identify the leaders or lose their job. The bills were pasted near the Gujarat Assembly and near Gandhinagar Civil Hospital.However, within a few hours of the posters coming up, some BJP workers reached the place and tore them off.Manubhai Patel blamed Congress for making the incident into a controversy. He alleged that Congress was trying to make a mountain out of a mole hill in view of the forthcoming Assembly elections later this year.On the other hand, the sanitary employee and other staff claimed that Manubhai Patel happened to pass through while they were resting during lunch break. This was the reason that the employee did not recognise him. The employees regretted that one of their colleagues was suspended.