I'd be happier to see Jhanvi get married than act: Sridevi.
Sridevi's elder daughter Jhanvi Kapoor may be getting ready to make her Bollywood debut, but the actor, like every desi parent, will be happier to see her daughter get married. In an interview with Mid-Day, Sridevi opened up about her daughters, Jhanvi and Khushi, and how they make her feel proud as a mother.Talking about Jhanvi's Bollywood debut, Student Of The Year 2, Sridevi said, "She wanted to do the film and initially, I wasn't in favour. I don't think it's a bad industry. I am a creation of this world. But, as a parent, it would give me greater joy to see her married. But her happiness matters more, and if she does well as an actress, I will be a proud mother."Sridevi has gone on record several times to say that her daughters are her priority. She reiterated, "We are like friends. We spend a lot of time together. Our routine is always centered around each other. I have been coming home late these days because I'm busy dubbing and promoting the film. But no matter how late I get, Khushi, always welcomes me with a smile. She comes to my room as soon as I get back and we snuggle up in a quilt to watch a film together."Given their close bond, it is natural for the actor to take her children with her, wherever she goes. But this has often been misunderstood, she rued. "Earlier, I would take them to social gatherings and premieres that I attended. But they (people) thought I was promoting Jhanvi. Walking with my girls made me feel like a proud mother. But to the world, it became a reason to misunderstand me," Sridevi said.Talking about how Jhanvi and Khushi have changed over the years, Sridevi said that she was glad that they have a mind of their own. "For me, they will always be kids. But they seem to have taken less after me and more after my bold screen image. Last year, when Khushi wrote a post about body shaming on Instagram, I was pleasantly surprised to see my kid turn into a strong, opinionated and sharp young woman," she said.On the work front, Sridevi is gearing up for the release of her film, Mom, which will hit theatres on July 7. 