Woman kidnapped in Gurugram, gangraped in car till Noida.
A 35-year-old woman was gangraped on Monday in Sohna, Haryana in a horrific ordeal that is believed to have lasted several hours. According to the woman, three men in a Maruti Swift car kidnapped her and drove her around on the streets of Sohna for several hours while repeatedly raped her. She was then driven all the way to Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh where she was thrown out of the car near Yatharh Hospital in Kasna. Based on the girl's written statement, Noida police have filed a First Information Report under Indian Penal Code Section 376D, which deals with gangrape. WHAT HAPPENED? According to the woman's statement, she was abducted by three men in a Swift car from near her home in Sohna, Gurgaon at 8.45 pm on Monday. The men then drove her around for four to five hours, taking turns to repeatedly molest and rape her. With the woman still in the car, the men then drove all the way to Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh where they flung her out of the car near the Yatharth Hospital in Kasna around 4 am. She recounted her horrific ordeal with locals in the area who then called the Noida police. Noida police reached the spot, informed their counterparts in Gurgaon and took the woman for a medical examination at Yatharth Hospital. Senior Superintendent of Police, Gautam Budh Nagar, Love Kumar told India Today that the woman was then taken back to Sohna to identify the spot from where she was abducted. Kumar also told India Today that there were certain discrepancies in the woman's initial statements and the police was working to verify and corroborate her claims. It remains unclear what route the alleged rapists took while driving from Sohna to Greater Noida. Kumar said the police is working to establish how the woman was brought to Greater Noida. The woman hails from Rajasthan's Bharatpur city and came to Sohna around 10-15 days ago and was staying with her family.DRUNK MEN?Meanwhile, initial investigation into the incident has indicated that the men were drunk or were drinking while the alleged gangrape occurred. Some beer bottles were also found from the spot which indicates that the accused persons were inebriated at the time," a senior Greater Noida police officer told news agency PTI.The men are also believed to have threatened the woman with dire consequences if she approached the police. While an FIR has been filed, no arrests have yet been made in the case. Police teams are examining CCTV footage to identify the route the Swift car took to travel the around 80-kilometer distance from Sohna to Greater Noida. The FIR has been registered by Noida police's Kasna unit and Gurgaon police has said they will be assisting the Noida cops. "We have taken the details from SSP Gautam Budh Nagar, Love Kumar. A team of the Gautambudh Nagar police is arriving in Gurgaon to examine the sequence of the crime. We are examining whether they lodged a zero FIR in this regard. We are assisting Noida police and are investigating the matter," Gurgaon Police Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar told PTI earlier in the day.Commenting on the alleged gangrape, Uttar Pradesh Health Minister and government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh told ANI that steps required under the law are being taken. The UP government will help the Haryana Police with whatever help they need to probe the incident, Singh said. COPS FOUND SLEEPING - UNRELATED INCIDENTWhile questions remain over how the alleged rapists were able to travel all the way from Gurgaon to Greater Noida without being stopped by cops, in an unrelated development, two Noida policemen stationed at a Police Control Room van were shunted out after they were found sleeping during the night.The Swift car in which the alleged gangrape occurred is not believed to have passed through the area in which PCR van was stationed. However, an unidentified person, who reportedly shot a video of the sleeping cops, sent the footage to Gautam Budh Nagar SSP Love Kumar after news of Monday's alleged gangrape came to light. Acting on the information, SSP Kumar transferred the policemen for dereliction of duty.ANOTHER GURGAON HORRORMonday night's incident comes a day after a seven-year-old girl was raped, allegedly by a 20-year-old auto driver in Gurgaon. The minor girl was alone in her home on Sunday when the incident took place. The accused was captured on CCTV cameras leading the girl away. The rape left the seven-year-old in a critical condition and she is currently fighting for her life at New Delhi's Safdurjung Hospital. The 20-year-old auto driver has been arrested by Gurgaon police. (With inputs from Chirag Gothi in Noida)(This story has been updated to report that an FIR has been registered in the case and to include other new information) ALSO READ | Gurugram: Woman gangraped in auto, 6-month-old daughter killed