CBI team visits Delhi Health Min's home over corruption case.
The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team visited Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain's house today in connection with probe related to a money laundering case.According to reports, the CBI team sought clarifications from Satyendra Jain's wife regarding allegations of money laundering against the minister.The CBI reached there as per time given by Satyendra Jain's wife for certain clarifications in ongoing investigation in money laundering case. PE is already registered against Jain. Time and place of clarification was given my Mrs Jain. There is no raid, no searches," the central agency said in a statement. The CBI had registered a preliminary enquiry against Satyendra Jain in April to inquire into allegations of money laundering against him.'VENDETTA POLITICS' The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) accused the Modi government of 'vendetta politics'."Central govt (sic) of BJP is misusing CBI for its vendetta politics. After Dy CM Manish Sisodia, BJP's CBI raids on Minister," the party said in a tweet.AAP MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj further lashed out at the agency. "Today CBI team reached Satyender Jain's home. CBI's allegations have named two people Sanjay and Suresh, who have been working for Satyender Jain since 2010, they facilitate hawala transactions for Jain," Bhardwaj said. "We have asked them to present the two, but they haven't done it so far. BJP's agency CBI said they're the ones who initiated hawala and named a landline number that doesn't exist since 2014," he added. Calling the CBI's claims "imaginary", Bhardwaj added, "BJP (is) benefiting from this. They're trying to derail (the) Delhi government..." THE ALLEGATION It is alleged that Jain was involved in money laundering to the tune of Rs 4.63 crore while being a public servant during 2015-16 through Prayas Info Solutions private limited, Akinchand developers private limited and Managalyatan projects private limited.The allegations against Jain also include purported money laundering to the tune of Rs 11.78 crore during 2010-12 through these companies and Indometal Impex pvt limited.The matter was referred to the CBI by Income Tax Department against the new Benami Transactions Prohibitions Act ALSO READ:Shunglu panel report slams Arvind Kejriwal's AAP government for nepotism. An India Today exclusive