Hang those who eat beef as status symbol: Sadhvi Saraswati.
In a provocative remark that will only make the already-raging debate over cow slaughter and consumption of beef more heated, a sadhvi who attended a meeting of several Hindu outfits in Panaji on Wednesday triggered a fresh row by saying that those who considered eating beef as a status symbol should be hanged. This remark by Sadhvi Saraswati, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, evoked a sharp reaction from the Congress, which said that her speech would incite communal hatred and demanded that the BJP-led government in Goa lodge an FIR against her."I appeal to the Government of India that those people, who consider eating meat of their own mother as a status symbol, should be hanged," Saraswati had said."They (those who eat beef) should be brought before the public and hanged. Then only people will know that it is our duty to protect 'gau mata'", she said while commenting on beef consumption during the inauguration of the All India Hindu Convention at Ramnathi village in Panaji.HINDUS MUST KEEP ARMS IN HOMES TO PROTECT THEMSELVESSadhvi Saraswati, president of the Sanatan Dharma Prachar Seva Samiti of Chhindwada in Madhya Pradesh, also asked the Hindus to keep arms in their homes to protect themselves."If we do not stock arms, we will be destroyed in the future," she said."Today Bharat is under attack from all directions. Efforts are being made to separate Kashmir from Bharat and also stop the Amarnath pilgrimage. Bharatmata and Gaumata are being censured", she said.Hitting out at some political parties for their demand to ban outfits calling for the creation of the "Hindu rashtra", she said that they should realise that no power in the country could prevent Hindus from establishing the "Hindu Nation".She said, "There is no such thing as saffron terrorism. Saffron means a life dedicated to the nation and dharma." Nearly 130 Hindu organisations from 21 states and countries including Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal are attending the four-day convention, its organisers said. CONGRESS SLAMS GOA GOVT's SILENCE OVER ISSUEReacting to the speeches made at the meet, All India Congress Committee secretary Girish Chodankar questioned why the Manohar Parrikar-led state government was silent over the issue."Statements provoking communal hatred were made during the convention. The state government has become a party to the entire programme by maintaining silence over the matter and allowing it to continue", Chodankar alleged.He also questioned Goa Forward Party leader Vijai Sardesai's silence on the issue.Sardesai, whose party is now an ally of the ruling BJP, had in the past slammed the VHP's claim that it would ban beef in the state. He had said that those who were trying to create communal disharmony would be dealt with strongly, Chodankar said. "Why is he (Sardesai) silent over Sadhvi's statement promoting violence?" Chodankar asked.He said the government should have taken suo moto cognisance of the sadhvi's comments and filed an FIR against her for 'hate speech'.Also read | Supreme Court notice to Centre on plea challenging cattle slaughter ban