Man throws his pet puppy from balcony for dropping laptop.
A man tossed his pet puppy off his first-floor balcony in Gurgaon's Sector 42 in an act of revenge after she dropped his laptop while playing with it and chewed up the DTH wires on Tuesday night.After a neighbour, who himself owns a German shepherd, heard the cries of the pup in the bushes and confronted the offender, he allegedly scooted.    The four-month-old puppy suffered a fracture on her right foreleg. She was brought by the owner's wife and their neighbour to the CGS Pet Hospital in Gurugram. The canine will undergo surgery to heal the broken bone soon.Experts said this is not an isolated incident and cases of insensitivity against animals are on the rise. In July last year, two medical students - Gautam Sudarshan and Ashish Paul - flung a stray from their private college terrace in Chennai while holding her just by the ear and skin.Similarly, a psychopath, Nakul Mishra, was found stabbing dogs to death at the Green Park Metro Station in Delhi, and an unemployed Dwarka resident chopped off the hind legs of a puppy with a hacksaw when it scratched him in December 2016.PUP'S OWNER FLEESArvind Kumar, an IT professional and resident of HUDA, M-Block, sector 42 in Gurugram, who saw the incident happening on Tuesday, said, "It was around 11 pm. I was doing my laundry in the backyard when I heard a sharp cry from a dog. When I came down to check, I saw the fearful puppy limping and hiding in the bushes.The couple, Dora Shlem and Phillip Maxwell, reached the spot too, and when I enquired from Maxwell, he denied doing anything but immediately fled in his car. His wife Dora told me everything."Dora has given a written confession and also told Mail Today, "Generally, we love her, but that day, it really damaged the whole laptop, chewed up wires and everything. My husband got angry and flung it."Arvind said he will file an FIR against Maxwell.   Abhinav Srihan, founder of the NGO Fauna Police, said, "It is extremely sad that people do such things to helpless animals. Puppies are just like human babies. They will be naughty and damage a shoe, furniture or TV once in a while. If you cannot tolerate their smell, hair or such acts, please do not adopt them."  LAX LAWS Activists say the laws against such crimes are very lax and their implementation is even more pathetic. Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 has provision for a maximum fine of Rs 50 and punishment of three months only.Also, Section 429 of the Indian Penal Code, which regards killing and maiming of an animal, gives a maximum punishment of five years that has so far not been given to anyone.Amita Singh, an animal rights activist and JNU professor, said, "Our whole struggle comes to a naught when these people simply get a bail and escape with a fine of just Rs 50."