Sleep with me if you want your husband freed: Cop to woman.
The Jodhpur police arrested a man with 1kg opium last week. The man's wife has been running pillar to post to get her husband out of the jail. She was offered help by a cop but he wanted a deal.Sitting behind bars, Rajiv Gandhi police station incharge Kamaldan Charan must be cursing himself for his depraved behavior. The cop was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for taking money from a woman whose husband was held in connection with drug trafficking. Kamaldan Charan had far more sinister plans other than just making some quick money. INDECENT PROPOSALCharan arrested a man in possession of 1kg opium last week. The wife of the accused approached the cop asking him for help to get her husband out of jail.The pervert cop agreed to help her but for that she would have to agree for a deal. The woman was shocked to hear what Charan wanted in return of release of her husband.Apart from Rs 2 lakh, the policeman wanted the woman to sleep with him. The woman somehow managed Rs 1 lakh and gave it to Kamaldan Charan. She also gave him a cheque of Rs 1 lakh as guarantee. But the Charan insisted on cash. When the woman expressed her inability in providing him with the money, the 'predator' cop asked her to 'compromise' if she wanted her man to be free.Charan told the woman that he will come at her house in night to 'enjoy' and spend some time with her. Stunned by what she heard, the woman immediately approached the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). After verifying the facts, ACB sleuths laid a trap to nab Kamaldan Charan red handed. HOW THE PERVERT COP WAS ARRESTEDCharan told the woman he would visit her on Tuesday night when is out on patrolling duty. The ACB was informed about this. He reached the woman's house on time and bolted the doors from inside. Before he could proceed according to his plan, the door bell rang. Charan's game was over. The ACB arrested him red handed with the Rs 1 lakh cheque that the woman had given him. ALSO READ:Bhopal: Cops beat 80-year-old woman with sticks, break her bones for 'ordering ruckus'