Hindu Sena throws b'day bash for 'Saviour of Humanity' Trump.
At 1 pm today, New Delhi's Jantar Mantar will witness a big birthday bash thrown by the right-wing group Hindu Sena in honour of United States President Donald Trump, or as they like to call him, the "Saviour of Humanity."Invites to the birthday celebration were circulated by Hindu Sena, which terms itself an 'independent non-profit organisation for Hindu causes', on social media.Posting the invite on Twitter, the group's national president Vishnu Gupta said, "I'd like to invite you all for Birthday Celebration of our beloved Mr. @realDonaldTrump President of #USA & Saviour of Humanity on 14/06/17". The invite, which also carries a photo of Donald Trump as a child (it's real), doesn't mention what the festivities at Jantar Mantar will entail. But, the invite does promise a photo exhibition, presumably on the life and times of President Trump.Also, if the Hindu Sena's Trump birthday celebration from last year is to be considered, there will be a decorative cake involved. This is not the first time the Hindu Sena has organised an event around Donald Trump, who turns 70 today. In May last year, the group held a havan, again at Jantar Mantar, praying for Donald Trump's victory in the then upcoming United States presidential election.Later that year in November, just days before the US election, the Hindu Sena pre-emptively celebrated the Republican Trump's victory over Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. MEANWHILE, IN THE USWhile the Hindu Sena is organising a birthday party for Trump at New Delhi's favourite protest site, there is an actual march being planned in New York City to protest the US president's very birth.A group called Rise and Resist, which was formed after Trump was voted to power in November last year, has called on citizens in New York City to march to Trump Tower and hold demonstrations. The group also plans to give him a gift: a plane ticket to Russia (the Trump campaign is being investigated for colluding with the Russian government during the US presidential election). The group's event page on its website says, "Rise and Resist will be protesting Trump's birthday by marching to Trump Tower in New York and delivering his present: one-way tickets to Russia."While there is no official word on whether and how Donald Trump will be celebrating his birthday, news agency AFP reported that wife Melania has asked supporters to sign a birthday card the US president will "never forget".