3 held for robbing milk booth owner of 7.7L in Ghaziabad.
The Ghaziabad police on Friday arrested a gang which looted Rs 7.7 lakh at gunpoint from the owner of a Mother Dairy outlet in Modi Nagar on July 24. However, the victims said they cannot  identify the robbers as they wore helmets during the incident.The arrested were identified as Kishor Vishwakarma, Bir Sen and Mukesh Lal.  They had allegedly robbed Pankaj Goel and his nephew Shivam while they were on their way to deposit Rs 7.7 lakh cash at a nearby on July 24.Two men on  a bike stopped us and held us at gunpoint. One of the two men snatched the two bags of cash and sped away. They also took away the keys of our two-wheeler to ensure that we do not chase them. The robbery was done in seconds and fled with the cash bags, said Goel.The two were wearing helmets and their faces were not visible. So we cannot identify the arrested as the men who robbed us. We had put a cross mark on the currency notes which were in the denominations of Rs 100 and Rs 50. In all, the two bags contained Rs 7, 77, 900, Goel said.The police, however, claimed that the arrested men had confessed to the crime and that they have recovered Rs 4.95 lakh of the loot. The police believe that the recovery will help ensure the conviction of the men in the court.The accused have dozens of criminal cases against them. They were watching the distributor for nearly two months before they carried out the strike. They knew Goels schedule when he would go to the milk booth and the bank. One of the accused is still absconding and we will take the three accused on remand soon, said HN Singh, senior superintendent of police.The police also recovered a Santro and two motorcycles  a Pulsar and an Apache  from the possession of the accused.According to the police, Mukesh has 22 criminal cases registered in Delhis Khajuri, Karawal Nagar and Gokul Puri. He also has cases in Ghaziabad. Kishor is named in seven cases while Bir Sen had three cases registered against him in Ghaziabad,the police said.