Gave birth to boy, hospital handed us girl: Delhi couple.
Is it a boy or a girl Sonia Prajapati, 25, says she gave birth to a son on June 2 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital. But the central government-run institute handed her a baby girl. She and her husband are now waiting for the report of a DNA test to end the mystery and their anguish.The hospital says the results would be in its favour and denies any possible baby switch. Sonia and her husband, Bhupender, are distraught. She is still in the gynaecology ward and keeps on looking at the empty crib next to her with tears in her eyes. She feels a little better on seeing other mothers playing with their babies.The couple lives in south Delhi's Khanpur and has lodged a complaint with the Safdarjung Police station."Mine was a normal delivery. I am certain that I had a given birth to a baby boy and even the doctors showed me. In case this was a girl child and I was wrong, the doctors in the OT and the nursing staff should have corrected me. But they didn't. That proves that I gave birth to baby boy," Sonia, who teaches at the NGO Navasrishti, told Mail Today."Also, without taking my permission, doctors here inserted Copper-T (a device used to prevent pregnancy) into my body. It is illegal. And if our DNA matches with the baby girl, I will accept her," Sonia added. DOC REFUTES CLAIMHowever, Dr AK Rai, director of Safdarjung Hospital, told MAIL TODAY that the couple's allegation is wrong."We are all waiting for the DNA reports and I am sure they will be in our favour as there was no exchange of babies. The DNA reports are likely to come in 20 days and till that time the baby girl is being kept in our nursery and looked after by the nursing staff," he said.Dr Rai added that on June 2, only two boys were born at the hospital and the rest were girls. "At 11am, a patient delivered a baby boy, who was premature and was sent to the nursery and the other male child was born at around 4pm, after the allegations made by Sonia (the patient) over exchange of babies," he said. "How can it be possible"The young couple waited four years for a child and is not ready to accept the "wrong" baby."They have returned the child to the hospital's nursery but have not got back their own son. We are trying to help them," said Krishna Bansal from Navasrishti, who helped the couple raise their voice against the alleged medical negligence. "Sonia's family approached us. We asked them to take action as previously incidents of medical faults have been noticed at Safarjung Hospital."Bansal has now written to the National Human Rights Commission to look into the matter."In this whole scenario, it's the baby girl who is suffering and being kept away from her mother since birth, which is the golden period for any newborn," said Bansal.