'Naughty' Kohli was quiet and shy in front of us: Sehwag.
Former India opener Virender Sehwag is someone who knows Virat Kohli very well, having played with him for the national team. He also had heard of the flamboyant batsman in the domestic circuit in Delhi and knew immediately that a special talent was in the making. Sehwag knows the India captain in and out and now has some interesting tales to tell about Kohli.Until Kohli became the captain of the Indian Test team, he was infamous for his brash and aggressive attitude and had quite a few run-ins with opposition players on the field. Coming from Delhi, the aggression and extreme passion for the game came naturally to him which reflected in his game as well.Sehwag though, was quite the opposite even though he hails from the same state. The Nawab of Najafgarh was always seen as a jovial character who used to sing songs while batting and made light work of the high-class bowling that he faced during his illustrious career. Even now in his career as a broadcaster, Sehwag is hilarious with his commentary and doesn't like to mince his words.Sehwag, in a recent show with Star Sports, narrated a particular story about Kohli where he revealed how he used to behave like a shy youngster in front of the seniors but was the complete opposite during his U-19 days."He was a shy and quite youngster in front of us senior players but when he was in the U-19 team he used to be very very naughty. I've heard a lot of stories about how naughty he was him from his U-19 coach Ajit Chaudhary."Once Chaudhary told me that Kohli fell ill or was play acting so his coach told him that he wouldn't play in the next match. And suddenly Kohli's fever went away and he became absolutely fine after hearing that, started batting normally the way he does in the nets also. He played the next match and smashed a double hundred," Sehwag told Star Sports in an interview.Sehwag also recalled the time he heard about Kohli for the first time and what he thought of the future India captain the first time he saw him bat live.