Plea filed against Rajinikanth's Tamil film over its story.
A court on Thursday sought the response of superstar Rajinikanth and others on a petition by a producer claiming that the title and story of the actor's upcoming flick Kaala Karikaalan belonged to him.Assistant City Civil Judge RKP Tamilarasi issued notice to Rajinikanth, the director and producer of the movie and South Indian Film Chamber of Commerce to file their replies by June 15.Petitioner K Rajashekaran, proprietor of GSR Vinmeen Creations, sought a direction to restrain the respondents from producing Kaala Karikaalan till the disposal of his petition."I had narrated the story to his PA and I was made to wait for five years for a call sheet. Then finally when he met me he clicked a picture with me and then said we will look into this in the future. I have narrated this story to many people and I am hoping that very soon things will fall into place. Director Ranjith has said that the short-form of Karikaalan is Kalaa and I am sure it is my script. I had based my story on a chola king in the current period and same is the case in this movie as well," said Rajashekaran.City-based Wonderbar Films Private Limited has announced it was producing the movie to be directed by Pa Ranjith. The first schedule shoot for the film was completed in Mumbai.Rajashekaran, who now works as a music teacher in a private school in the city is also actively involved in assisting in serials. His last venture was in a serial called 'Vinnai Thandi Varuvaya'. Rajashekaran claims that in 1992 was when he had first spoken about his script and had also registered the title Karigalan. "I wrote this script keeping in mind Rajini sir and if not Rajini the second option in mind was Vijayakanth. I have been visiting a lot of producers to get this script into a movie. It has been a long time dream for me as well as my family," said Rajashekaran. He contended that the title Karikalaan was already registered by him with the South Indian Film Chamber of Commerce."Title registration of the movie has been done and it is done only after telling the story line. In 1996 during an audio launch had announced about the makinh of Kaarigalan and in 2012, When actor Chiyaan Vikram was doing Kaarigalan, the movie was stayed because of my complaint. Vikram's Karigalan trailer and promo is there on the internet and the same that is being shot by Rajini as well," he added.Further, on the occasion of releasing a music album composed by him, he had announced his plans to produce the movie about the Chola emperor Karikalaan by adopting the same to the present social trend, he said.He claimed that he had narrated the story to Rajinikanth Fans Association leader Sathyanarayana. Though he met Rajinikanth, because of his busy schedule, he was unable to hear the story, the petitioner added.He alleged that the chamber had not renewed the title registration and was misusing the rules of registration, renewal and cancellation of the titles to favour some influential persons and disfavouring indigent persons.( With inputs from Akshaya Nath, India Today )