Dimple Kapadia made acting debut at 16 in 1973 film Bobby.
Dimple Kapadia can turn more heads than her daughter Twinkle Khanna even now. The ravishing Bobby actor turns 60 today but doesn't look anywhere close to it. Dimple started her career with the iconic Raj Kapoor film, Bobby, when she was just 16. She got married to superstar Rajesh Khanna, 15 years older to her, a few months before her debut film released. Bobby, with Dimple and Rishi Kapoor in the lead roles, was a trendsetter which gave Dimple the moniker of a sex bomb. She gave birth to two daughters, Twinkle and Rinke, and took a break from acting to concentrate on motherhood. However, her marriage with Rajesh Khanna didn't last long. She made a comeback on the big screen with Saagar in 1984. With 80 films and many awards in her kitty, she has proved that there is more to her than a pretty face and gorgeous tresses. Here is a look at five of her outstanding performances on the big screen:BobbyAt 16, Dimple Kapadia made her debut opposite Rishi Kapoor in this Raj Kapoor film which took the industry by storm. Dimple made a mark in her very first film, and it became a huge success, setting a lot of trends, from the signature "Bobby print" to the trope of the coming-of-age romance with a background difference. A whole generation of Bollywood films have followed this theme since Bobby.SaagarHer comeback film after the self-imposed sabbatical was a love triangle. The Ramesh Sippy film with Kamal Haasan and Rishi Kapoor in the lead roles, also created a lot of buzz for her topless shot. What was actually a wardrobe malfunction, went on to become one of the most iconic scenes in the history of Bollywood. Dimple continued with her strong act on the screen with a lot of intense on-screen moments with Rishi Kapoor. She won the Filmfare Award for Best Actress for Saagar.JanbaazHer next stellar performance was opposite Anil Kapoor in Feroz Khan's directorial Janbaaz. With power packed performances from Anil Kapoor, Feroz Khan, Amrish Puri, Dimple stood out with her act as Anil's love interest Reshma. They share some steamy scenes on screen. Janbaaz was entertaining with all the right commercial Bollywood elements, which worked for the film.RudaaliBased on the short story "Rudaali" by the revered Bengali writer Mahasweta Devi, Rudaali saw Dimple in an unglamorous but extremely arresting role. Rakhee Gulzar and Dimple Kapadia played the leads in the film which didn't have any male lead. The film, directed by Guru Dutt's niece Kalpana Lajmi, was shot mostly in Rajasthan. Rudaali is the story of professional women mourners who were hired to mourn death of male relatives, a custom prevalent in Rajasthan. Dressed in local costumes, Dimple brought the role to life on screen and even won a National Award for her emotional performance.Dil Chahta HaiDil Chahta Hai, Farhan Akhtar's maiden venture was sort of a second comeback movie for the 43-year-old. Farhan's film had all the elements to click with the young audience. Dimple played an older woman who caught the fancy of the artist Akshaye Khanna. She played the perfect muse to him while adding a certain dimension to her character.ALSO READ: Dimple Kapadia responds with dignity to the Rajesh Khanna-Naseeruddin Shah furoreALSO READ: Unknown facts about Dimple Kapadia, Rajesh Khanna's marriage ALSO WATCH: Rustom star Akshay Kumar is the real 'Khiladi' of Bollywood