Lalu's daughter summoned, fined ?10k over dubious land deal .
Misa Bharti, daughter of former Bihar Chief Minister Lalu Prasad, has been summoned notice by the Income Tax department in connection with a benami land deal case. The department is probing alleged land deals worth Rs 1000 crore linked to Misa Bharti.Bharti was to appear before I-T sleuths for questioning today but the RJD chief's daughter chose not to following which the deparment issues fresh notice asking her to appear before it on June 12.She has also been slapped Rs 10,000 penalty for failing to appear before the I-T department despite a prior notice. Bharti's husband Shailesh Kumar has been summoned in the same case by the department for tomorrow. WHAT IS THE CASEA chartered accountant, Rajesh Kumar Agrawal, allegedly linked to Bharti and others was also arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on May 22. Agrawal is alleged to have aided in llegal transactions involving Lalu's kin. Officials had said that the summonses to Bharti and Kumar are part of the investigation in the case and their statements will be recorded. The couple are alleged to have links with a firm links with a firm - Ms Mishail Packers and Printers Private Limited - which is suspected to have entered into benami deals for purchase of a farm house in Delhi's Bijwasan area. Certain other property deals are also under the scanner of the taxman, they had said. I-T department officials had said they will apply provisions of the newly enacted Benami Transactions Act, 1988, which became operational from November 1 last year, in this case. The law provides for a maximum punishment of seven years in jail and a fine. The action under this new law will be over and above the legal proceedings under the Income Tax Act, 1961, which relates to charges of domestic tax evasion. However, Lalu had sought to put up a brave face after the raids, saying he was 'not scared at all' and will continue to fight against 'fascist forces'. ALSO READ:Misa Bharti's accountant Rajesh Agarwal arrested by ED in money laundering caseLalu Yadav's daughter Misa Bharti, her husband summoned by I-T department in money laundering case