NIT Srinagar site hacked, hackers demand 'Free Kashmir'.
In an unfortunate series of events that unfolded in the Kashmir Valley in the aftermath of the India-Pakistan tie in the ICC Champions Trophy 2017 at Edgbaston that left the neighbours' nose bloodied, pro-Kashmir elements hacked the official website of the premier National Institute of Technology (NIT) based in Srinagar on Monday, calling for an Azaad Kashmir.NIT Srinagar became a target perhaps for the fact that it had hit headlines after a clash between Kashmiri and non-Kashmiri students last year when the latter cheered India's defeat in the T20 World Cup match against West Indies. The servers were downed after the attack.While the nation was busy grappling with an early-morning terrorist attack on a CRPF station at Sumbal in Bandipora district of Kashmir, which was foiled by jawans and left four terrorists dead, pro-Kashmir freedom elements, most probably from across the border, hacked the website of the premier institute and posted, "Ask for milk, we shall give you sweets. Ask for Kashmir we shall kill you." This, ironically, has been the clarion call of the Right wing, which it employs towards those asking for Kashmir's freedom."We saw that the website had been hacked when some students tried to access it to see a few articles of the syllabus. We were shocked to see that the website bore anti-India literature, anti-Indian Armed Forces propaganda and a call to leave Kashmir and give it freedom," one of the students told Mail Today.WHAT THE POSTERS SAID The posters, uploaded in the name of one 'All Pak Cyber Skullz Members', said. "We shall fight till the last breath. What shall a man not pay for living Everyday 100s of innocent people are abused, raped and even killed in Kashmir by Indian army, a third of the deaths are children. We don't want war. Take back your guns and go back to where you came from.""All we ask is for freedom, you can kill us, you can't kill us all, we shall not give up." The poster went on to say: "Giving up is not an option." In yet another poster the hackers declared their identity as 'Hacked by SH11: Team Pak Cyber Skullz'.The poster also said, "Go Modi Go." To a rhetorical question - "You know why you got hacked - which the hackers obviously wanted to answer, the poster said, "Free Kashmir. Freedom is our goal. Kashmir does not want militarised governance. Stop killing children, raping women and imprisoning the men! They just want freedom! Freedom from the evil of the Indian Military!"