I was a fool to sign Tiger Zinda Hai: Salman Khan.
Salman Khan is on a film-promotion spree right now. Tubelight, his first release this year, is slated to hit the screens on June 26. And after that there's the second film of the year his fans are looking forward to - Ali Abbas Zafar's Tiger Zinda Hai, scheduled for a Christmas release.Now that Salman Khan's Tubelight is releasing in less than a month, the actor is busy giving interviews to the media, during the course of which he has revealed a lot of hitherto-unknown facts about himself. Here are 10 things about the superstar that you might not have known:1. In order to play the role of a slow-witted man in Tubelight, Salman took inspiration from the kids in his house. He said in an interview, "When you are growing up, you are naive, innocent, but at the age of 51-52, when you have seen the world, then it's difficult to play something like this.  I was wondering where should I get that innocence from, but this character allowed me to do everything. I had to dig deep into my childhood. Sohail and I started remembering all our school friends, our batch mates.  Luckily, there are many kids in our family, and I learnt many things from them, but I had to be careful to not over do things because it is an emotional film, and not a comedy. It couldn't have looked like a caricature or a joke."2. The 2016 film Sultan has taken a toll on Salman Khan's health. The actor is still coping with the 'aches, pains and ligament tears'. He said in the interview, "Post Sultan, I still have lot of aches, pain, and ligament tears. Once I sit down, it's difficult to get about."3. Salman Khan will never move out of his flat into a bigger bungalow because he has many memories attached to his home. "I love staying at my flat in Bandra over a big, luxurious bungalow because my parents live in the flat above mine. Ever since I was a child I have taken the same left turn or right turn and I would not have it any other way. The entire building is like one big family. When we were little, all the kids of the building would play together in the garden below and sometimes even sleep there. Back then, there weren't different houses, all the houses were treated as our own and we would go into anyone's house to eat food. I still stay in the same flat because I have countless memories attached to that house," Khan said in a statement recently.4. At 51, Salman is now tackling yet another 'panga': Tiger Zinda Hai and Remo D'Souza's dance film. Salman said, "After Sultan, there was lot of pain in my body... Now I have signed Tiger Zinda Hai like a fool, I am jumping off the building, running and shooting, doing all action; I am going mad in the film. I feel one day my knee will come out. And after that I am doing Remo D'Souza's dancing film, foolish (thing). Initially I thought it's just dancing and I will have to do a bit more of dancing. I did not realise dancing today is about aerobatics and gymnastics. I am 51 years old and I have taken this panga."5. Contrary to reports, Salman Khan has not signed ABCD 3 opposite Jacqueline Fernandez. Khan said, "I am not doing ABCD 3, it's a Disney property. The dance film that I am doing (as an actor) and producing is different. Not all dance films are ABCD."6. Even though Salman Khan and his Tubelight director Kabir Khan share a great rapport, Salman says he will not accept any and every film that Kabir gives him. ""After having worked with Kabir in three films we understand each other well. We share a great comfort level but that doesn't mean I will do all the films that he will offer me. If I don't like what he has offered me I won't do it, and even he won't work with me if he thinks I am not fit for a film," Salman said.7. About his ex-girlfriend-turned-close-friend Katrina Kaif, Salman said that it is always 'great' working with her. "It's always great working with her. She is the hardest working actress I have ever met. She rehearses a lot, be it for dance or action sequences in a film. She has been working very hard for Tiger Zinda Hai."8. And finally, Salman shed some light on his first crush too. "I was 16 and there was this girl I really liked, but I could never muster the courage to tell her that. I was scared she would say no. She dated two of my friends and it didn't work out with either of them. She was a friend to me, but never liked me romantically. When others dated her, I was heartbroken. She never got to know of my feelings. She must have noticed that I was in love with her, but she was not into me. I was bummed," said the 51-year-old superstar.