Absconding Vijay Mallya spotted at India-Pakistan match.
Absconding businessman Vijay Mallya was today spotted at the Edgbaston Cricket Ground in Birmingham, where India began its Champions Trophy defence against arch rivals Pakistan. Pictures shared widely on social media showed the owner of the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines sitting in the stands wearing a white coat. Notably, Mallya was once associated with the Indian Premier League as the owner of the Royal Challengers Bangalore team. In an another photo, also shared on social media, Mallya was seen along with Indian batting legend Sunil Gavaskar. India Today could not independently verify the photo, but the businessman was wearing the same attire seen in other photos shared from the match. Gavaskar, who appeared to be looking at something on the liquor baron's phone, and Mallya both could be seen wearing Champions Trophy lanyards. Mallya, who owes Indian banks Rs 6,963 crore (Rs 9,000 crore with interest), is wanted in India for cases relating to foreign exchange violation, debt recovery and embezzlement. He fled India for the United Kingdom in March last year and was officially declared an absconder by a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court in November last year. The 61-year-old Mallya, known for leading a flamboyant lifestyle, has been fighting an extradition case in the UK. In April this year, London's Scotland Yard, acting upon India's request, formally arrested Mallya on an extraction warrant. He was taken to a local court, which granted him bail. He is next set to appear in front of the British court on May 17. India has been pushing for Mallya's extradition, with even the Prime Minister's Office getting involved.  In November last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally explained to visiting British PM Theresa May why it was important that Mallya be returned to India.MALLYA CASE: TIMELINEAugust, 2014: CBI starts preliminary enquiry into the Rs 800 crore bad loan given by IDBI Bank to Kingfisher Airlines ignoring company's negative credit ratings.July, 2015: IDBI Bank lodges complaint against Mallya accusing him of cheating and conspiracy to misuse bank's funds in connivance with public servants.October, 2015: CBI conducts raids at Mallya's office.December, 2015: CBI questions Mallya.February, 2016: SBI-led consortium of banks moves debt recovery tribunal to attach Mallya's passport.March, 2016: Mallya flees India.June, 2016: CBI forms SIT to investigate case; Rakesh Asthana appointed to lead the teamJune, 2016: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) attaches Mallya's assets worth Rs 1,411 croreJuly, 2016: SBI lodges an FIR against Mallya following pressure from the SIT.August, 2016: The bank consortium urges the Supreme Court to act against Vijay Mallya for failing to turn up in court despite a contempt notice issued against him.September, 2016: The ED attaches Rs 6,630 crore worth of properties belonging to Mallya.November, 2016: Special PMLA court declares Mallya an absconder. November 2016: PM Narendra Modi meets PM Theresa May in India, explains importance of getting Mallya back.