BJP killed Dalits to be in power in Chhattisgarh: Rahul.
Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Chhattisgarh of killing ?Dalits? and ?tribals? for the sake of power. ?Chhattisgarh sarkar ne ek-k-baad-ek ghotale kiye , chhote vyapariyon ko khatam kar diya , adivasiyon ko aur daliton ko maara . Kyun ? Satta ke liye. Satta ke liye sab ho raha hai (Chhattisgarh government has been involved in scam after scam;  it has annihilated small traders and killed Dalits and tribals for power. All these are done just to attain power),? Rahul said, addressing party workers. Gandhi arrived on a two-day visit to tribal-dominated Bastar district of Chhattisgarh to rejuvenate the party in this Maoist hotbed ahead of 2018 assembly polls. The Congress, which is in out of power in the state since 2003, is still a formidable force in the Bastar region. Tribals and Dalits are often at the receiving end of the counter-Maoist operations in the region, alienating them from the Raman Singh-led BJP government. He asked the workers to strengthen the party and also gave some tips on how to effectively use social media to mobilise support. ? He( Rahul) emphasised on the importance of social media and gave us some useful and effective tips,? said a party worker present in the session.Addressing the closed door session, Gandhi termed the BJP as a ?party of lies?, and egged on his party functionaries to defeat the saffron party with their ?power of truth.??They (the BJP) tell the same lie again and again to make it appear true just for their vested interest to secure power,? he said. On Saturday, Gandhi will address a rally to protest the proposed disinvestment of state-owned NMDC?s steel plant coming up in Nagarnar area of Bastar.The NDMC employees, their unions and local people are against the Centre?s plan for a strategic disinvestment of the plant. The Congress is trying to cash in on their grievances ahead of the assembly polls. Even chief minister Raman Singh had warned the Centre that the disinvestment plan could trigger unrest in the Bastar region.