BJP MP tosses plastic bottle into river as UP Min watches.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Swachh Bharat campaign with much fanfare and lots of emotion asking every citizen to contribute towards making India absolutely clean by 2019 - the 150th birth year of Mahatma Gandhi. But, BJP MP from Barabanki Priyanka Rawat seems to be least bothered.On an inspection of an embankment on the Saryu - which passes through Ayodhya and finds mention in Vedas as wells the Ramayana - Priyanka Rawat tossed a plastic water bottle into the river.Ironically, UP Water Resources Minister Dharampal Singh accompanied him when she tossed the plastic bottle into the Saryu. Dharampal Singh, incidentally, gave a speech on how to keep rivers clean. He emphasised, in his speech, that keeping rivers clean was a necessity.Dharampal Singh and Priyanka Rawat had travelled more than 100 kilometres to Gonda from Lucknow for Saryu embankment inspection. The officials present at the site suggested that Priyanka Rawat and Dharampal Singh take a round of Saryu river in a motorboat.AS IT HAPPENEDPriyanka Rawat can be seen in the video boarding the boat holding a plastic water bottle and carelessly tossing it up into the river. The camera crew present there shot the entire incident. Priyanka Rawat was the first to get onto the boat. Minister Dharampal Singh followed her. After gulping the remaining water from the bottle, Priyanka reportedly asked the minister what to do with the bottle.Without waiting for the answer from the Minister, Priyanka Rawat looks around and tosses up the bottle into Saryu river. #WATCH Priyanka Rawat, BJP MP from Barabanki tosses a plastic bottle into River Saryu, in Gonda pic.twitter.com/XBXGI2DNx3MINISTER BATS FOR CLEANLINESSA little later, Minister Dharampal Singh addresses the media and blames the previous Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav governments for the state of rivers in Uttar Pradesh. Dharampal Singh reiterate the BJP government's commitment to clean Ganga saying, 'Aviral Ganga, Nirmal Ganga' (Uninterrupted Ganga, Clean Ganga). The Saryu ends up in River Ganga. The plastic water bottle tossed up by Priyanka Rawat will also reach the Ganga mocking the Namami Gange project of the Narendra Modi government.ON TOSSING UP BOTTLE INTO SARYUWhen a reporter asked about the plastic bottle thrown by Priyanka Rawat, Dharampal Singh could just say, "I said (we) should not (throw it into the river)" adding, "We will not allow the Ganga to be polluted."