US journo Kelly trolled for asking Modi "Are you on Twitter".
National Broadcasting Company (NBC) journalist Megyn Kelly must be ruing the she didn't do her homework properly before meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in St. Petersburg. The famous journalist is facing severe flak from netizens for asking PM Modi whether he was on Twitter. Kelly launched her new show with an interaction featuring Russian President Vladimir Putin and PM Modi at Konstantin Palace in St. Petersburg. However, she soon found herself being slammed on social media for her absurd question to PM Modi while greeting him. EXCLUSIVE: NBC News' @megynkelly joins Vladimir Putin and Narendra Modi ahead of tomorrow's International Economic Forum in Russia. pic.twitter.com/L12ahtuTDOWHAT HAPPENEDBefore the formal TV interaction, Megyn Kelly welcomed the world leaders inside the Konstantin Palace shaking hands with them. While she was greeting Modi, the Indian Prime Minister said,"I saw your tweet... with umbrella." Things are looking up in St. Petersburg - the rain stopped...& I will interview President Putin on Friday. pic.twitter.com/3MJ3IoIhlH"Ohh really! did you Are you on Twitter" Kelly replied with a smile. PM Modi appeared to have taken aback at Kelly's query. PM Modi casually ignored the 'ignorant' journalist and chose to laugh off Kelly's query.However, people on social media weren't so forgiving to the NBC reporter as she was hammered online for her poor knowledge.For the ignorant lot like Kelly, incidentally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the third most followed world leader on Twitter after Pope Francis and US President Donald Trump.Dear @megynkelly here is ur twitter profile vs @narendramodi sir profile,still u ask that r u on twitter. Wats d population f ur country btw pic.twitter.com/bFcanO6iLPThis was funny While @narendramodi had done his homework Ms. Kelly had not researched her subjects well.The first thing I do before..Really "Are you on Twitter" that's dumb!@narendramodi is 3rd most followed politician, after Obama & Trump, & has 10x more than herself!Dear self-obsessed Americans,yes @narendramodi is on Twitter and has more than 30 Million followers.These morons do their homework after interview.@narendramodi has 30.3 million follower dear Meggy noodles https://t.co/DZMLuQ10lkStupidity of this lady is evident when she asked PM Modi 'are you on twitter' She didnot even do basic research.  ALSO READ: