How has India's performance been in ICC Champions Trophy.
India have had pretty mixed fortunes at the ICC Champions Trophy. India have played the tournament in all the previous seven editions finishing on top twice while ending runners-up once.Sourav Ganguly, Rahul Dravid, Sachin Tendulkar and most lately Shikhar Dhawan have been key to India's rise at the multi-nation tournament. Zaheer Khan, Harbhajan Singh and Ishant Sharma have been the among the top wicket-takers at the event while MS Dhoni is the most successful Indian wicket-keeper. This time they will go into the tournament as defending champions and would look to create history by becoming the first team to win the championship thrice.Here's a look at India's journey at the top ICC event:1998 Wills International Cups (Bangladesh) - SEMI-FINALSIndia fielded a strong side with Mohammad Azharuddin as captain. The side boasted of a strong batting line-up with the likes of Sourav Ganguly, Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid, Ajay Jadeja and Robin Singh in the side. Javagal Srinath spearheading the pace attack while Anil Kumble looked after the spin department.However,India were knocked out in semi-finals by West Indies, who were led by Brian Lara.2000 ICC KnockOut (Kenya) - RUNNERS-UPSourav Ganguly's 117 went in vain in the big final as Chris Cairns' 102 not out guided New Zealand to a four-wicket win to hand Kiwis the trophy. Yuvraj Singh and Zaheer Khan made their debuts for India in the tournament.2002 ICC Champions Tropy (Sri Lanka) - CHAMPIONS (Shared)India, under Sourav Ganguly, went a step further by becoming the joint champions with Sri Lanka after the final was rained-off twice. In the final, Sri Lanka posted 244/5 with Sanath Jayasuriya and Kumar Sangakkara scoring a fifty each. In reply, India started off well and were 14/0 in two overs when rain halted the proceedings and no further play was possible that day.On the reserve day, Sri Lanka again won the toss and batted first. This time Mahela Jayawardene and Russell Arnold struck fifties to help Sri Lanka post 222/7 in their 50 overs. In response, Virender Sehwag looked at his menacing best with 25 not out off 22 balls when heavy rain stopped play. Once again the persistent rain denied a result and the trophy was awarded to both Sri Lanka and India.2004 ICC Champions Trophy (England) - GROUP STAGEIndia failed to go beyond the group stage. India started off their campaign with a thunderous 98-run win over Kenya but a three-wicket defeat against Pakistan was enough to stop Ganguly's men from advancing to the semi-finals.2006 ICC Champions Trophy (India) - GROUP STAGEIndia's batting line-up failed to fire in the big tournament at home. They managed to beat England in their first game but their star-studded batting continued to misfire and consecutive defeats against West Indies and Australia left them with just one win in the tournament.2009 ICC Champions Trophy (South Africa) - GROUP STAGEIndia again failed to impress. Rahul Dravid-led side started with a 54-run loss against Pakistan while their next game against Australia yielded no result because of rain. In their third group match, India beat West Indies to finish with three points in the table but it was not enough to get them through to the semi-finals.