Shane Warne sledged me for 10 years, says Sourav Ganguly.
The Aaj Tak Salaam Cricket 2017 brought together some of the most iconic names in the cricketing world and there were some expected fireworks right through the day, especially when the likes of Sourav Ganguly and Shane Warne came face-to-face with Michael Clarke watching on.Ganguly had, in 2001, tamed Australia in that historic series which the hosts won 2-1 after bouncing back from a defeat at the Wankhede Stadium. It was in the course of that iconic series that the then Indian captain Ganguly, had got to the Australians' nerves by delaying the toss.Sixteen years later, Shane Warne, who was an integral part of Steve Waugh's team, said he was okay with what Ganguly did in his home turf and thought it was a smart, aggressive move to derail the Aussies by coming out late for the toss.However, Ganguly, who was present along with Clarke for the session titled "Warnie, Pup and Dada" show, reiterated that Warne wasn't as accepting of the tactic back in 2001: "Everytime I came out to bat , he would pitch the ball outside leg and remind me to play the game in the right spirit."Known for their wit and humour, both Ganguly and Warne kept 'sledging' each other as the audience burst into laughter. However, their mutual respect was palpable."I have seen Warne sledge me throughout. We were playing for different counties and he would see me come out and he would sledge me. Even when it was Rajasthan Royals vs Kolkata Knight Riders, he would come at the toss and start sledging me from there itself. And all this happened for a period of 10 years. But he's a fabulous bowler and the best I have faced. I have played against Muttiah Muralitharan too and I'm lucky to get some runs against both of them," Ganguly said.Warne said he got sledged by Ganguly in equal measure.: "Sourav never said a word back - can you believe that ?"But Warne showed his admiration for Ganguly, Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid, VVS Laxman and Virender Sehwag - known as the Fab 5 of Indian cricket and said their contributions towards Indian cricket was immense.  "Don't ever underestimate how good these guys are - I would much rather bowl to the modern day Indian guys than these guys. India became one of the best sides in the world under Sourav," Warne said.Warne said sledging Ganguly made the legendary Indian batsman more determined than ever: "I sledged him thinking I could get him out this time but that only made him more determined. It was under Sourav that India because one of the best sides from one of the better sides because he gave them the toughness, the feeling of not going under any team."Clarke, who had captained Australia with great success after Ricky Ponting stepped aside, said he was lucky to play the game alongside legends such as Warne and Ganguly."The players I idolised I got to play with and against - it's a great example of why you play the game. They were so competitive on the field. That's why the game is so special.