Kapil Mishra assaulted by AAP MLAs inside Delhi Assembly.
Former minister Kapil Mishra was beaten up by fellow AAP MLAs inside the Delhi Assembly today as he tried to raise slogans against CM Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendra Jain. Speaking to India Today, Kapil Mishra said the assault was ordered by Kejriwal and dared the AAP chief to come out clean on the allegations levelled against him. Television images showed Mishra being surrounded and heckled by a few AAP MLAs on the floor of the house. The Speaker had to summon marshals to rescue Mishra and take him away.Talking to reporters outside the Assembly, Mishra said he was punched in the chest by AAP MLAs. "I had written a letter to the Speaker on Kejriwal's corruption and asked to be allowed to speak during the Assembly session. I had also called for a special session at the Ramlila Maidan but I was attacked," Mishra said. "I was thrashed, some of them kicked me on the chest. But I am not afraid of them. Kejriwal and Satyendra Jain are corrupt and have been exposed. My fight against these corrupt leaders will continue," Mishra said.  Mishra, who served as Water Supply minister, was removed from the post after he claimed that he has evidence to show that Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet colleague Satyendra Jain were involved in corruption. Mishra had said he saw Kejriwal receiving Rs 2 crore unaccounted money from Jain.Mishra had recently accused the Aam Aadmi Party of under-reporting its donation figures to the Election Commission.He alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party had Rs 45.74 crore in its bank accounts during the financial year 2013-2014. Of this, the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP declared Rs 9.42 crore to the Election Commission.Mishra had even approached the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) with 'evidence' of Kejriwal's corruption. ALSO  READ:  Kapil Mishra 'exposes' Arvind Kejriwal: All you need to know about the charges against Aam Aadmi PartyKirti Azad to Kapil Mishra: Why parties have become more tolerant of their rebel lawmakersKapil Mishra says Kejriwal govt improperly procured medicines, over paid for ambulances