After defeating Kiwis, Kohli shares picture from team dinner.
The Indian team is enjoying their time in England as they gear up to defend the ICC Champions Trophy starting next month.After beating New Zealand by 45 runs via the Duckworth-Lewis (D/L) method in a rain-curtailed warm-up match at the Oval on Sunday, Virat Kohli, MS Dhoni, Ajinkya Rahane, Kedar Jadhav, Umesh Yadav and a few other Indian cricketers, were seen chilling enjoying dinner at a London restaurant.Umesh Yadav posted the picture on his Instagram account with a caption -- "Had a good time with my team mates." Kohli also later tweeted a selfie he had clicked. One from last night, meal with the boys after a good day at work! ðð pic.twitter.com/DamELk435LHad a good time with my team mates #dinner#fun#ðððA post shared by Umesh Yadav (@umeshyaadav) on May 28, 2017 at 1:52pm PDTIndia displayed a dominant performance against the Black Caps at the Kennington Oval. The Indian pacers led the charge and Ravindra Jadeja supported them ably, taking two important wickets at crucial junctures of the innings. Mohammed Shami and Bhuvneshwar Kumar took three wickets apiece to bowl New Zealand out for a paltry total of 189.Good day on the field for us today...@BCCI@ashwinravi99@DineshKarthikpic.twitter.com/3iNs0dLXRYChasing the target, India lost Ajinkya Rahane early but Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli struck a 68-run partnership for the second wicket before the left-hander fell for a 59-ball 40. The champions soon lost Dinesh Karthik for a duck but Kohli steadied the ship along with the incoming Mahendra Singh Dhoni to guide India to 129/3 from 26 overs before rain stopped play. Kohli was looking in great touch, scoring 52* off 55 balls while Dhoni was batting on 17* as India looked well on course to chase down the target. However, heavy rainfall didn't allow any further play, handing India an easy victory as they were ahead of the par score of 84.6ï¸â£ WATCH @msdhoni's maximum against New Zealand! ð®ð³ #IndvNZpic.twitter.com/dxP8LCagPpThe Indian captain was in a good mood after the match got over. Kohli was interacting with the fans and obliging them with autographs from the stands.ð®ð³ vs ð³ð¿ #CT17 warm-up match - After India won on D/L, the skipper @imVkohli obliged the fans #INDvNZpic.twitter.com/ITrepEkSqqBefore the match against New Zealand, Dhawan also posted a video of him and his Delhi teammate, Kohli -- singing and dancing in the bus before their practice session. 