India rejects Pakistan's claims of flying jets over Siachen.
Pakistan appears to have been rattled by India's strong response to its frequent ceasefire violations at the Line of Control (LoC) as the country's air force has activated all operating forward bases, reports say. The Indian Air Force said there was no was air space violation by Pakistan as it flew fighter jets near Siachen. Reports in Pakistani media also claimed that Mirage fighter jets of country's air force flew near Siachen as part of a war exercise. The event was inspected by air force chief Sohail Aman. He also visited forward air base in Skardu today. The air force chief was accompanied by other top Pakistan air force officers.According to PAF, a fighter squadron carried out higher and lower altitude flights in Siachen.Pakistani air force's move comes a day after Indian Army released video of Pakistani bunkers being targeted by Indian forces at forward posts in Naushera sector across the Line of Control.Though the Indian Army did not give much operational details of the retributive assault across the Line of Control (LoC) against Pakistan Army positions in Naushera sector of Jammu and Kashmir which were "aiding" infiltration, sources in the force said the strike was carried out on May 9, nine days after two Indian security personnel were beheaded.The 22-second video showed concrete structures being reduced to rubble amid plumes of smoke and balls of fire. However, the area of the operation was not clearly identifiable in the clipping.IAF CHIEF B S DHANOA'S LETTER TO OFFICERSIAF Chief B S Dhanoa had recently written a personal letter to officers of the force, asking them to be prepared for operations at a "very short notice" to effectively deal with security challenges, including sub- conventional threat, to the country."In the present scenario, there is an ever persistent sub-conventional threat. Therefore, we need to be prepared for operations with our present holdings, at a very short notice. Training needs to be focused towards this," Dhanoa's letter dated March 30 said. (With inputs from PTI) ALSO READ: