Effigies of Rajinikanth burnt, protestors term him Kannadiga.
Superstar Rajinikanth may have resorted back to his acting career and is leading a normal life after dropping hints to join politics, but all is not peaceful in Tamil Nadu. His May 19 speech was replete with hints of political ambition while the superstar met with his fans after a long time. But things have taken a drastic turn in Tamil Nadu politics since then. A day after Rajinikanth's speech, his effigy was burnt in Coimbatore by TPDK movement members claiming that he insulted Tamilians. But the next disaster was waiting to happen in Chennai.On May 22, another pro-Tamil group Thamizar Munnetra Padai decided to protest against Rajinikanth claiming him to be a Kannadiga. Veeralakshmi, the leader of the group announced a protest and that she would lay siege on Rajinikanth's house at Poes Garden. Security was beefed up and no vehicles were allowed beyond the checkpoints which were resurrected after Jayalalithaa's death.But to their surprise, Veeralakshmi brought her group near American Counsel and burnt the effigy of Rajinikanth. Embarrassed cops were unable to go near the effigy as it was packed with crackers, which is a new trend to make the police stop the protest. "Down down, Kannadiga actor Rajnikanth. Tamil Nadu is only for Tamils," yelled Veeralakshmi while she held a flag near the burning effigy.The cops finally put out the fire, removed the effigy and arrested 17 members of the group. To everyone's surprise, not much outrage was seen in Chennai from Rajinikanth's fans.Yet around 4 pm in the evening, outraged Rajinikanth fans protested against Veeralakshmi and burnt her effigy at Madurai. Close to 50 Rajinikanth fans assembled near Periyar Bus stand and burnt Veeralakshmi's effigy raising slogans against anyone who opposed Rajinikanth's entry into politics.  The superstar has already cleared out that without someone opposing, you can't grow up in life and has asked his fans to lead their usual life until they hear the war cry.Also Read:Rajinikanth faces protest, pro-Tamil group calls him a Kannadiga, asks Thalaiva to stay out of politics Rajinikanth will join politics, for sure. The question is when?