UK election campaigning suspended after terror attack.


8.37am BST
08:37

London?s mayor, Sadiq Khan, has confirmed that security is being reviewed and stepped up in the capital. ?I am in constant contact with the Metropolitan police, who are reviewing security arrangements in London. Londoners will see more police on our streets,? he said.My statement on the barbaric and sickening attack in Manchester last night. London stands with Manchester today. https://t.co/S2dUbSzViG pic.twitter.com/THHp0rWxd8Updated
at 8.40am BST


8.34am BST
08:34

Kim WillsherThe French president, Emmanuel Macron, has expressed his ?horror? and ?distress? at the Manchester attack. The Élysée Palace said Macron was planning to speak to Theresa May later today, writes Kim Willsher. In a statement (see earlier) the recently elected French leader said he sent the British people France?s ?compassion and sorrow? and pledged to continue working with Britain to fight terrorism.France?s prime minister, Édouard Philippe, condemned what he called ?the most cowardly terrorism? that had ?specifically and clearly? targeted young people going to a concert. ?In the face of this abominable crime, I would like to express to the citizens of Manchester and the British people, my sadness, the French people?s solidarity and unwavering friendship,? Philippe told AFP.French government spokesman Christophe Castaner tweeted: ?Once more attacked, our democracies must work together. My thoughts and solidarity go to the victims, their families and the British...?Interior minister Gérard Collomb also Tweeted sympathy to Manchester. The Paris mayor, Anne Hidalgo, wrote on Twitter: ?Tonight Paris stands with Manchester?. French-Canadian singer Céline Dion wrote: ?Manchester, I am with you. All my love?.Updated
at 8.39am BST


8.32am BST
08:32

Matthew TaylorA report of a suspicious package at Victoria coach station in London this morning was a false alarm, according to the Metropolitan police.The reported suspect package at Victoria Coach Station has now been cleared. Not suspicious. Thanks for your patience.Updated
at 9.15am BST


8.19am BST
08:19

Steven MorrisRichard Leese, the leader of Manchester city council, has spoken of the city?s determination to defeat terrorism. Speaking alongside Andy Burnham, Leese said:?Our thought are with the families and friends of the victims. As a city we will have to take some time to grieve. We have to ensure that terrorism never wins so business as usual as much as possible, communities coming together ? we will not allow this to divide us. As citizens of Manchester demonstrated last night, this city will pull together. A dark day but something that Manchester in its unique way will make sure we turn into a strength. We need to be alert but we must not be afraid.?Updated
at 8.25am BST


8.15am BST
08:15

The European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, has given this statement:?It was with great sadness and profound shock that I learnt of the brutal attack that struck Manchester.It breaks my heart to think that, once again, terrorism has sought to instil fear where there should be joy, to sow division where young people and families should be coming together in celebration.I would like to convey my deepest sympathies to Prime Minister May and to the British people.Today we mourn with you. Tomorrow we will work side by side with you to fight back against those who seek to destroy our way of life. They underestimate ours and your resilience ? these cowardly attacks will only strengthen our commitment to work together to defeat the perpetrators of such vile acts.?Updated
at 8.17am BST


8.11am BST
08:11

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, has spoken of his horror and consternation at the attack. In a statement he offered his sympathies to the British people and promised that France and Britain would work together to combat terrorism. He also said he would speak to Theresa May later today.#Manchester @EmmanuelMacron adresse au peuple britannique toute la compassion et la sollicitude de la France pic.twitter.com/gyPjZexeXeUpdated
at 8.14am BST


8.05am BST
08:05

Matthew WeaverThe Greater Manchester mayor, Andy Burnham, was asked how the attack compared with the 7/7 attack in London in 2005. He said:I was in the Home Office as a minister on that day, and I remember how London felt on that day. I remember it very vividly. London pulled together in exactly the same way that Manchester is its own unique way will pull together. We will stand strong, and stand together, that?s what we are. That?s what we do. So they won?t win. We are grieving, we are hurt today, but as I said we are strong. And this city has dealt with difficult days in the past and we do so now.Burnham also confirmed that he would be taking part in the government?s emergency Cobra meeting via video-link from Manchester. He said: ?I will be heading over to Greater Manchester police force headquarters after this press call to take part in the Cobra meeting alongside the police constable. There will be a further update after that. We will work with the government to give the people the reassurance that they need, and to insure that, as far as possible, that we return to business as usual in the city.? Steve Morris in Manchester has this footage of his statement. Andy Burnham on the Manchester attack (part 2). https://t.co/kxXmdXCryBUpdated
at 8.14am BST


8.01am BST
08:01

Claire PhippsWe are working to establish the full details of what is being treated by the police as an appalling terrorist attack.All our thoughts are with the victims and the families of those who have been affected.?broken. From the bottom of my heart, I am so so sorry. I don?t have words.?Updated
at 8.15am BST


8.00am BST
08:00

The Lee Rigby Foundation, which offers support for bereaved families in memory of the soldier who was murdered by terrorists in 2013, has tweeted its shock and sorrow at last night?s attack.Rigby was killed on 22 May 2013; the Manchester attack fell on the fourth anniversary of his death.We are deeply shocked and saddened at the dreadful terrorist attack in #ManchesterArena & send our deepest sympathies to all those affected.Updated
at 8.00am BST


7.55am BST
07:55

Elle HuntFor some it sounded muffled and far away, as though somewhere in the distance a big balloon had popped. For others the terror was all too immediately apparent.The lights had just come on and Ariana Grande had left the stage after concluding an elaborate three-hour, four-part entertainment extravaganza with an encore performance of her latest single, Dangerous Woman.At 10.30pm following a sold-out show in the 21,000-capacity Manchester Arena, thousands of fans began to gather up their belongings and filter slowly out of four exits.Then the bang.For the first milliseconds, minds did not immediately connect the sound with an explosion or a bomb.?It sounded like a big balloon popping, but it was kind of muffled, like it wasn?t in the stadium itself,? said a young Mancunian fan, identified as Sammy, in a video he recorded of his experience and posted on Periscope.?There were a few screams, then there was silence. Then the whole arena literally split like the Red Sea ? everyone was trampling over each other, sprinting to get to the nearest exit. It was like a scene out of a horror movie.?