UK explosion suicide bomber died at scene: Police.


7.49am BST
07:49

The archbishop of Canterbury has tweeted his condolences to those affected:Heroic Manchester, dark evil cannot overcome it. We pray for those in sorrow on the hard journey of loss & pain, & for those who protect usThe Plaid Cymru leader, Leanne Wood, has joined other parties in halting election campaigning:The thoughts and sympathies of all of us in Plaid Cymru go out to all the people affected by last nights horrific events in Manchester. We will be suspending our campaigning today as a mark of respect to all of the families.Updated
at 7.52am BST


7.43am BST
07:43

Peter WalkerCharlotte Campbells 15-year-old daughter, Olivia, is still missing after the concert. She spoke to BBC Radio 4s Today programme, where she began by saying when she last talked to her daughter:She was at the concert. Shed just seen the support act and said she was having an amazing time, and thanking me for letting her go. She was with her friend, Adam. Adam was found about half an hour ago  hes in hospital  but Olivias not been found yet.Im at home phoning everybody: hospitals, police, the centres that the children have been put in. Her dads in Manchester looking for her. Ive got friends looking for her. Ive got people I dont even know looking for her, people messaging me, saying weve got her photo, looking for her, well get in contact if we see her. And Im just hearing nothing. Her phones dead.Social media has been wonderful. I dont know what Ive have done without them, its made it so aware that shes missing. Theres thousands of people who now know shes missing, theres people out looking for her I dont know, and I cant thank these people enough, giving their time up.Theyve basically told me to stay put and wait for a phone call. I darent leave the house just in case she somehow gets home.We have still not found OLIVIA CAMPBELL. If you see her please contact me ASAP. pic.twitter.com/8LboKg0B2nUpdated
at 8.03am BST


7.36am BST
07:36

Andy Burnham, the new mayor of Greater Manchester, has been speaking in the city about the attack, which he describes as an evil act. He says his thoughts are with the victims, their families and friends:We will do whatever we can to support them. We are grieving today but we are strong.He also pays tribute to the emergency services:I want to thank the hundreds of police, fire and ambulance staff who worked through the night  I want to thank the people of Manchester: even in the minutes after the attack they opened their doors to strangers and drove them away from danger  It will be that spirit of Manchester that will prevail and hold us together.Burnham says he was a minister in the Home Office during the 7/7 attacks on London, which killed 52 people:I remember how London felt on that day, I remember it vividly  Manchester will pull together  thats what we are, thats what we do. They wont win. This city has dealt with difficult things in the past and we will do so now.Updated
at 9.17am BST


7.28am BST
07:28

The explosion happened moments after the end of a concert at Manchester Arena by Ariana Grande.Grande, who was not hurt in the blast, tweeted earlier that she was broken by news of the casualties:broken. from the bottom of my heart, i am so so sorry. i don't have words.

7.24am BST
07:24

The US president Donald Trump, on a visit to Israel, is being updated on the situation in Manchester, White House spokesman Sean Spicer has confirmed:National Security Team is providing updates to @POTUS on situation in #manchesterexplosionUpdated
at 7.30am BST


7.18am BST
07:18

Key updates from the most recent police press conference:Updated
at 7.19am BST


7.15am BST
07:15

Chief constable Ian Hopkins confirms that 22 people have died and a further 59 have been injured.This has been the most horrific incident we have had to face in Greater Manchester and one that we all hoped we would never see.Families and many young people were out to enjoy a concert at the Manchester Arena and have lost their lives. Our thoughts are with those 22 victims that we now know have died, the 59 people who have been injured and their loved ones. We continue to do all we can to support them. They are being treated at eight hospitals across Greater Manchester.This is a fast-moving investigation and we have significant resources deployed to both the investigation and the visible patrols that people will see across Greater Manchester as they wake up to news of the events last night. This will include armed officers as people would expect. More than 400 officers have been involved in the operation during the night.To remind you, we were called at 10.33pm to reports of an explosion at the Manchester Arena at the conclusion of an Ariana Grande concert. More than 250 calls came in and emergency services were very quickly on scene. Emergency numbers have been established for anyone who is concerned for loved ones who may not have returned home: 0161 856 9400 or 0161 856 9900.We have been treating this as a terrorist incident and we believe that while the attack last night was conducted by one man. The priority is to establish whether he was acting alone or as part of a network.The attacker, I can confirm, died at the arena. We believe the attacker was carrying an improvised explosive device, which he detonated, causing this atrocity.We would ask people not to speculate on his details or to share names. There is a complex and wide-ranging investigation under way.Our priority is to work with the national counter-terrorist policing network and UK intelligence services to establish more details about the individual who carried out this attack.Updated
at 7.33am BST


7.06am BST
07:06

Hopkins confirms that children are among the 22 people confirmed to have died.

7.04am BST
07:04

Chief constable Ian Hopkins says the attacker died in the explosion.He says that while police believe the man was acting alone in the attack last night, investigations are ongoing to establish if he was part of a network.He says police believe the man was carrying an improvised explosive device, which he detonated causing this atrocity.

6.59am BST
06:59

Greater Manchester police says 22 people have died, and 59 injured.