Shatrughan Sinha praises Kejriwal for his credibility.
BJP MP Shatrughan Sinha came out in support of Lalu Prasad Yadav and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, and slammed those who indulge in negative politics and mudslinging on political opponents.  "Enough of negative politics and mudslinging by opponents on our political leaders, be it Kejriwal, Laloo Yadav or Sushil Modi," Shatrughan Sinha tweeted. "Our BJP surely believes in honesty and transparency, which seldom go together, but must go together. An allegation is ONLY THAT unless proved," the BJP MP from Patna Sahib constituency said.Our BJP surely believes in honesty & transparency, which seldom go together, but must go together. An allegation is ONLY THAT unless proved!The actor-turned politician, known to be a vocal critic of the Narendra Modi government, said political parties cannot just feed media with one-night stories and sensational news. Enough of negative politics & mudslinging by opponents on our political leaders, be it Kejriwal, Laloo Yadav or Sushil Modi..High time..1>2"High to substantiate your claims... or pack up! Can't just keep feeding media with one night stories and sensationalising. Enough is enough," Shatrughan Sinha said. ..time to substantiate your claims..or pack up! Can't just keep feeding media with one night stories & sensationalising. Enough is enough!Sinha had encouraging words for Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal, who has been charged with corruption by AAP legislator and sacked minister Kapil Mishra. "Individually I hold all political parties, especially Kejriwal, in high esteem for their credibility, struggle and commitment towards society," Shatrughan Sinha said.Individually I hold all political leaders, esp Kejriwal, in high esteem for their credibility, struggle & commitment towards society...1>2UP election: Is Shatrughan Sinha's dig at hardly working leaders an attack on 'hardworking' ModiBJP leader Shatrughan Sinha slams author Chetan Bhagat for comparing Advani with Rahul Gandhi