Kulbhushan bigger terrorist than Kasab: Pervez Musharraf.
Former Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf on Friday said that Kulbhushan Jadhav is a bigger terrorist than Ajmal Kasab, one of the perpetrators of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, in which more than 150 people were killed. Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court in April this year on charges of espionage. Pakistan alleges that Jadhav is a Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) agent and is responsible for fomenting unrest in Balochistan, the troubled Pakistani region where Islamabad has long accused RAW of promoting terrorism.In an interview to Pakistan's ARY News, Musharraf drew parallels between Jadhav and Kasab, who was hanged to death in India for his role in the Mumbai attacks. Musharraf said Kasab was just a "pawn" while Jadhav is responsible for getting "dozens of people" to carry out terrorist activities. "Who is a bigger culprit (between Jadhav and Kasab)," Musharraf rhetorically asked, before saying, "Obviously it is Jadhav." "I don't even know how many people's deaths Jadhav is responsible for," Musharraf added.The former Pakistani army chief also slammed his country for appearing in the International Court of Justice, which this week put a stay on Jadhav's death sentence. "It was wrong that India went to the ICJ," Musharraf said, adding, "Pakistan should not have gone (to the ICJ". Issues of espionage and sabotage are Pakistan's internal matters, Musharraf added, saying no one has the authority to advise his country on these issues. He also went on to indicate that world bodies like the United Nations and the International Court of Justice don't have any real power. Directives issued by these world bodies are ignored by some countries, Musharraf said when asked whether Pakistan could have realistically avoided sending a team to the ICJ to defend against India's claim. Musharraf went on to cite the example of the United States executing two German nationals in 1999 despite an ICJ provisional ruling putting a stay on the death penalty awarded to the two. THE KULBHUSHAN JADHAV ISSUE In April this year, Pakistan Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa confirmed the death sentence handed to Kulbhushan Jadhav, accused of spying.India, which slammed Jadhav's trial as 'farcical', said that Jadhav is not a spy and that he is a former Indian Navy officer-turned businessman who was kidnapped in Iran and taken to Pakistan. Contending that Islamabad had violated the Vienna Convention by not providing New Delhi consular access to Jadhav, India filed a petition at The Hague, Netherlands-based ICJ. This week, the World Court, allowing India's plea, asked Pakistan not to execute Jadhav until the ICJ has had the time to hear the matter in full and arrive at a final verdict.ALSO READ: How Pakistani media reported ICJ stay on Kulbhushan Jadhav's death sentence