Kannadigas have no pride: RGV on Baahubali 2 K'taka success.
Ram Gopal Varma is at it again. The filmmaker, who has been relentlessly tweeting about SS Rajamouli's Baahubali 2: The Conclusion, took potshots at Kannadigas, saying that they have "no pride at all". If not for his films, Ram Gopal Varma will be more remembered for his ugly spats with celebrities. Baahubali 2: The Conclusion, which release on April 28, has received fantastic response in Karnataka too. Now, in a series of tweets, RGV criticised Kannadigas for the glorious success of Baahubali 2 in their state.Thundering success of Telugu Bahubali2 in Karnataka being far bigger than biggest of Kannada films proves kannadigas have no pride at allKannadigas attempt to stop dubbing films is shattered by telugu straight film proving kannadigas have no pride n they just want better filmAll proud Kannadigas should protest on their own Kannadigas for seeing a telugu straight film many more times than their own Kannada filmsIt must be noted that Rajamouli faced stiff protest from pro-Kannada groups, demanding an apology for actor Sathyaraj's 'insensitive' remarks about Kannadigas during the Cauvery water crisis. In fact, the groups lead by Vatal Nagaraj sought a ban on the film in Karnataka. After Rajamouli's emotional video message requesting for a peaceful release of the film, Sathyaraj, who plays Katappa in Baahubali, issued a public statement apologising to the Kannadigas.Meanwhile, Baahubali 2: The Conclusion is the highest grossing Indian film and has netted entered the Rs 1500-crore mark worldwide. The Prabhas-starrer has raked in Rs 100 crore in Tamil Nadu, while it is touted to be the fastest film to earn Rs 50 crore in Kerala. The film is likely to beat Mohanlal's Pulimurugan in Kerala, which reportedly collected Rs 90 crore. As per trade reports, Baahubali 2 has minted more than 285 crore in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Anushka Shetty, Tamannaah, Sathyaraj and Ramya Krishnan star in pivotal roles in this instalment of Baahubali too.ALSO READ: Baahubali 2 box-office collection day 22- Prabhas-Rana's epic enters Rs 1500-crore club