Rotten system needs to be changed: Rajinikanth on politics.
"Will he or won't" is the million dollar question in the minds of common men in Tamil Nadu over speculations that superstar Rajinikanth is taking the political plunge. Dropping what is perhaps his biggest hint so far on joining politics, Thalaiva today said the "system is rotten and needs revamp"."We have good leaders like Stalin (MK), Anbumani (Ramadoss) and Seeman. But what do we do when the system is rotten, democracy has deteriorated. This system needs to be changed and a change has to be brought in the minds of people, then only will the country flourish," he said."I have my profession, my job. I have some responsibilities and you have your jobs. Go back to your respective places and do your job. Let's meet when it's time for the war," Rajinikanth roared amidst thundering applause from fans.Shooting down the outsider tag, Rajinikanth said he is a pure Tamil now despite his origins from Karnataka. "Even though I am from Karnataka, still you have accepted me and you have made me into a Tamil. I am a pure Tamil now," the superstar said in Chennai. "I lived in Karnataka for 23 years and Tamil Nadu for 43 years. Although I came as a Marathi from Karnataka, you people nurtured me, made me true Tamilian," he said.Thalaiva once again did not clarify whether or not he is joining Tamil Nadu politics. "Without opposition, there is no entry into politics" was his cryptic message to his fans, the superstar's meeting with them becoming more frequent lately.With Tamil stalwarts like late J Jayalalithaa and ailing DMK supremo M Karunanidhi out of the picture in the current dispensation, Rajinikanth's fans believe he is the only one who can effectively fill the political vacuum in the state. Earlier this week, the megastar had set tongues wagging with his remarks that that if he joined politics, he would show the door to all "money-minded" people. He, however, added that he had no desire to enter the fray, but did not know "what God had in store for him".In 1996, the 67-year-old actor had supported the DMK-TMC against J Jayalalithaa in Tamil Nadu, and the alliance swept the polls that year. But he has not been involved in any political activity since then. BJP TRYING TO WOO THALAIVAThe BJP has been trying to rope in the superstar for its entry into the turbulent Tamil Nadu politics. Recently, BJP national secretary H Raja said Rajinikanth is a "popular" personality and is welcome to join the saffron party."He has every right to form a political party or join politics. But so far he has not taken a firm stand. So we have to wait and see. Anybody willing to join the BJP under Narendra Modi's leadership is welcome," Raja said.Opposition DMK's acting chief MK Stalin today said he is happy Rajinikanth called him a good leader and that he shouldn't fall for the BJP's wooing. "I am happy he called me a good leader. The BJP is trying to woo him, but he shouldn't fall (for it). Let Rajini take his decision on politics," he told India Today TV.