Harsh Vardhan given charge of Environment Ministry.
Dr Harsh Vardhan has been given the additional charge of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF) after the death of Minister of State Anil Madhav Dave who held the portfolio under an independent charge. Dave was found dead at his official residence in New Delhi. His death came to light after his staff tried to wake him up at 7.30 am today morning. Dave was appointed as the Minister of State (MoS) with an independent charge of MoEF in the Narendra Modi government on 5 July, 2016. President Pranab Mukherjee, acting on the advice of PM Modi, gave Dr Harsh Vardhan the charge of MoEF today. "The President of India, as advised by the Prime Minister, has directed that Dr Harsh Vardhan, Cabinet Minister shall be assigned the charge of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, in addition to his exiting portfolios," a statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan read. Dr Harsh Vardhan, a senior minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet, holds the charge of the ministries of earth sciences and science and technology. For a brief period in 2014, Harsh Vardhan was the Health Minister in the Modi cabinet.DAVE'S DEATH CONDOLED President Pranab Mukherjee wrote to Abay Dave, brother of late Anil Madhav Dave, condoling the latter's death. "I am sad to learn about the sudden demise of your brother, Shri Anil Madhav Dave," the president said. "Shri Dave rendered commendable service to the nation as Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) and Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Environment," Mukherjee also said. "He made important contribution as member of various Parliamentary Committees during his 8 years as Rajya Sabha member. His tenure as Minister of State (IC), Ministry of Environment was distinguished by extensive efforts to conserve nature and protect environment", the president added. Ending the message, Mukherjee said, "Please accept my heartfelt condolences and convey the same to the members of your family. May you all have the strength to bear this irreparable loss with courage and fortitude".Dave's death was condoled by nearly all leading politicians and members of the government, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dr Harsh Vardhan too posted a condolence message on Twitter, saying, "Feel sad abt demise of dear ministerial colleague Anil Madhav Dave today morning- was  a noble intellectual soul.May His Soul Rest In Peace (sic)." 