Knew about Nitish's plan for past 3-4 months: Rahul Gandhi .
Hitting out at Nitish Kumar for joining hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bihar, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi said that he knew that such a plan was in the making for the last three-four months."We knew that this (Nitish joining hands with BJP) was being planned for the last three-four months. A person can go to any limits for his own benefit," Rahul Gandhi said. The Congress leader said that Nitish Kumar was given the mandate for his fight against anti-communal forces but now he has joined hands with the same forces. The big question, however, is that if Rahul Gandhi knew that Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) was in talks with the BJP to look at the possibility of rebuilding the alliance, did he do anything to put a stop to such plans. RAHUL DID NOT ACT, SAYS NITISHAfter tendering his resignation as Chief Minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar said that in the current circumstances, where deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav was accused of corruption, he was finding it difficult to continue "to be in power".Nitish Kumar, in an attack on Rahul Gandhi, said that while the Congress vice-president tore the ordinance exempting politicians from facing corruption charges, he did not do anything to save the Grand Alliance. A few days ago, Nitish Kumar had met Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi where the two reportedly talked about the corruption charges against Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad and his family members, including son and deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav.At the meeting, Nitish Kumar was believed to have conveyed to Rahul Gandhi that under present circumstances Tejashwi Yadav could not continue in his Cabinet.Given Congress' long association with RJD, many would argue that the former could have convinced Lalu Prasad to ask his son to quit the Cabinet for the time-being. SOMETHING SIMILAR HAPPENED IN GOA TOOThis, however, is not the first time when Rahul Gandhi and the Congress leadership were found to be on the back foot despite having prior knowledge about the situation threatening to go out of their hands.In the recent Assembly election in Goa, the Congress had more seats than the BJP but lost the chance of forming the government due to alleged delay in decision-making by the leadership. As an active BJP reached out to everyone it could to get the numbers on its side, sources in the Congress said that the leadership, in particular Digvijaya Singh, was late in deciding on the leader of the legislature party. Disgruntled Congress MLA Vishwajit Rane put in his papers and joined the BJP, blaming the leadership for delay in decision-making.  "We waited from 11 am to 5 pm not knowing anything about what is happening but BJP swiftly acted," said Congress MLA Jennifer Monserrate.Rahul Gandhi, while crying foul over BJP forming the governments in Goa and Manipur where Congress had more seats, accused the BJP of stealing the mandate by using "financial power".ALSO READ:Why Nitish Kumar has almost killed Opposition chances to challenge Modi with a Grand Alliance in 2019 