Hyderabad Int'l Airport south India's 1st to go 100% LED-lit.
According to a report, between 2011 and 2012, sales of LED replacement globally increased by 22 per cent and the cost of a 60W equivalent LED bulb fell by nearly 40 per cent. It is believed that by 2030, LEDs will account for 75 per cent of all lighting sales around the world. RAJIV GANDHI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTThe Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) at Hyderabad will soon become 100 per cent LED-lit airport. The authorities are already done with 75 per cent work on the project.The GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL), which operates the airport, announced on Tuesday that it has converted the entire taxiway edge lights from halogen lamps to LEDs which are highly efficient as compared to halogen lights.LEDs also have a much smaller environmental impact than incandescent bulbs. Hyderabad's Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) thus became south India's first and India's second airport to achieve going all LED.HYDERABAD'S CARBON NEUTRAL AIRPORTComplementing the recently achieved recognition of being carbon neutral airport, GHIAL is marching to transform the RGIA into a 100 per cent LED airport, and 75 per cent work on this has already been completed, GHIAL said in a statement.LEDs can also last more than 25 times longer than the traditional light bulbs cutting down costs further.RGIA'S ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTENANCEThe RGIA, which currently serves more than 15 million passengers per annum (MPPA) with close to 400 daily air traffic movements, has a mission to move from conventional energy to renewable energy sources for environmental sustenance. It recently commissioned a captive 5MW Solar Power Plant for its use supporting sustainable energy.UNDERGOING LED TRANSFORMATIONThe busiest and the most critical area of the airport -- the airside -- has undergone LED transformation. As many as 500 halogen lamps of taxiway edge lights were converted to LEDs. All LEDs at taxiway edge lights cover around 26 km of the area in the airside.Hyderabad's Rajiv Gandhi International Airport has more than 26,000 conventional lamps. More than 19,500 have been converted into LED.The switch to LED lights has amounted to a saving of 2.2 million unites of electricity per annum.