Who is Harish Salve, lawyer representing India against Pak?.
Senior lawyer Harish Salve's strong arguments to defend India's stand on Kulbhushan Jadhav at the International Court of Justice were widely appreciated by one and all.Some, who said any senior lawyer "would have done the same and with much less expenses than Harish Salve", came in for a surprise when Minister of External Affairs Sushma Swaraj said that he has charged just Re 1 for the Kulbhushan Jadhav case.Not fair. #HarishSalve has charged us Rs.1/- as his fee for this case. https://t.co/Eyl3vQScrsThat he is one of the most expensive lawyers in the country is a fact possibly well known. Yet, just for numbers' sake, Harish Salve takes home anywhere between Rs 6 lakh to Rs 15 lakh per appearance in the Supreme Court or the Delhi High Court.Harish Salve also has a penchant for Apple products and generally likes to have one within hours of its launch. A man of fine tastes, Salve loves playing the piano, enjoys jazz and drives a Bentley.His convincing arguments, which were also at display during the International Court of Justice hearing on Monday, make him arguably the best legal eagles in the country. In the past, Salve has worked with former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee.             Besides high-profile clients such as Salman Khan and Mukesh Ambani, Harish Salve also appeared for Gujarat riots victim Bilkis Bano at the request of the National Human Rights Commission. Harish Salve was also part of the team that successfully argued at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against a bid by Marshall Islands to sue India for violating the nuclear disarmament obligations.WHAT DO OTHER TOP LAWYERS TAKE HOME:Ram Jethmalani: The man who is often dubbed as the devil's advocate is representing Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in the defamation case filed against him by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley.Following a controversy over the fee he charged Arvind Kejriwal in the case, Jethmalani reportedly said that he can offer his services free of cost to his "poor client". One of the senior-most lawyers in the country, Ram Jethmalani is right on top when it comes to the fee he charges per appearance in the Supreme Court or the Delhi High Court. According to Legally India, Jethmalani charges more than Rs 25 lakh per appearance but handles several pro bono (free of charge) cases.He became the youngest lawyer at 18 when the minimum age to become a lawyer in the country was 21. Ram Jethmalani, whose sharp memory distinguishes him from the rest, also loves playing badminton.Kapil Sabil: The senior Congress leader is also a sought-after lawyer and commands a fee of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 16 lakh per appearance. The former law minister is appearing for the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) in the triple talaq case in the Supreme Court. "Yes, I do charge industry... In any case, one-third of my practice has always been pro bono" Kapil Sibal was quoted by The Economic Times.His brother Kanwal Sibal is a retired diplomat who was awarded the Padma Shri this year.Salman Khurshid: Yet another Congress leader, Salman Khurshid charges Rs 5 lakh-plus per appearance in the Supreme Court and Rs 8 lakh to Rs 11 lakh for every appearance in the Delhi High Court. Like most senior lawyers, Salman Khurshid also accepts pro bono cases and is known to accommodate young lawyers. The Supreme Court recently requested Khurshid to assist it as an amicus curiae in the triple talaq case.A look at some other senior lawyers and what they take home:Shanti Bhushan: Charges anywhere between Rs 4.5 lakh to Rs 6 lakh per appearance in the Supreme Court or the Delhi High CourtAbhishek Manu Singhvi: Rs 6 lakh to Rs 11 lakh per appearance in the Supreme Court; Rs 7 lakh to Rs 15 lakh per appearance in the Delhi High CourtDushyant Dave: Rs 5.5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh per appearance in the Supreme Court or the Delhi High Court. Does not charge armed forces, civil services, teachers, doctors, NGOs. (Source: Figures on lawyers' fees from Legally India, September 2015) ALSO READ:Kulbhushan Jadhav case: 3 examples Harish Salve cited to tip ICJ scales in India's favour