Modi is PM because people found him capable: Nitish Kumar.
The opposition parties are yet to decide on a Bihar-like grand alliance to deny the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Narendra Modi a second consecutive term and one of the prime 'would be' contenders for the PM's chair has already backed out. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has ruled himself out of the PM race in 2019. Speaking to reporters on the sideline of an event in Patna, Nitish said he has no interest in taking the top post."I am not a fool...not in race for 2019 PM post. I was elected as party (JD-U) president as Sharadji (Yadav) couldn't continue on the post. But this was seen as my aspiration for a national role...which is wrong," he said. "I thank people for considering me capable enough for it but let me make it clear once again I am not in the race," Nitish said.ENDORSES SECOND TERM FOR PRANABNitish Kumar also backed a second term for President Pranab Mukherjee. "It will be great if President Pranab Mukherjee is given a second term. I will support the move, but the final decision has to be taken by the Centre," he said. President Pranab's term ends in July.ON ALLEGATIONS OF SCAM ON LALU PRASAD'S FAMILYWhen asked about recent allegations of scam linked to RJD chief Lalu Prasad's family, Nitish said both Lalu and his party have already responded to charges by BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi. Nitish also sought to divert the issue, saying matters concerning company laws come under the Centre's purview. "There is an attempt to divert people's attention towards such issues. This is happening in a well planned manner," the Bihar chief minister said.ON EVM CONTROVERSYNitish Kumar also rejected claims by parties like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Mayawati's BSP that the Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) could be tampered with to favour a particular party."I believe there is no issue with EVM but if questions are being raised...it would be good if they are answered comprehensively,"  he said. WATCH: Dump Lalu, we'll support you: Sushil Modi's offer to NitishALSO READ:Lalu Yadav admits controversial land belongs to family, says they are co-owners of the mallModi vs Nitish in 2019 Bihar's Grand Alliance wants to go national now