My mom wanted to poison me but today she's proud of me: KRK.
It's Mother's Day and Kamaal Rashid Khan aka KRK, the self-proclaimed film critic and Twitter influencer had a very interesting story to share about his mother. Turns out the lady wanted to poison him. Don't wonder why because KRK himself gives the answer to that.It began with Kamaal Rashid Khan sharing a picture of himself with his mother. He captioned it, :Wish you very happy #MothersDay Mom! Once upon a time, you wanted to give poison but today you are proud of me. (sic)"Wish you very happy #MothersDay Mom! Once upon a time, you wanted to give poison but today you are proud of me.ð???ð???ð??? pic.twitter.com/d3NRYfp6ohThen KRK proceeded to give some explaination... Apparently, little KRK was too much into watching films. His mother thought that he would destroy his family's reputation which is why she wanted to poison him.My mother was angry with me for watching films so she thought dat I will destroy the reputation of family hence she wanted to give me poisonAccording my parents I was worst child of them out of 6 coz I was going to school instead of doing farming n watching films with my friends."According my parents I was worst child of them out of 6 coz I was going to school instead of doing farming n watching films with my friends (sic)," KRK wrote.I could hav been best son of my mother if I didn't go to school but got married with my cousin sister at the age of 15 n becom a good farmerKRK added that he could have been his mother's favourite had he married his cousin sister when he was fifteen years old and then took to farming. My brothers were good for my parents coz they never asked to go to school, got married at the age of 12 n became good farmers like father.However, his grandfather loved him and sent him to school much to the chagrin of his father.My grandfather did send me to school who loved me too much n my father thought that he was spoiling my life. https://t.co/eZGGAPOzBnAnd did you know KRK was the class-topper in school and college? And so are his kids, apparently.My teachers n colleagues can never forget me because I was always the topper in my class, school n college. And today my children are same.And as they say, all's well that ends well.