63% Indians concerned about leakage of data given to Aadhaar.
The Supreme Court has agreed to hear a plea challenging various notifications of the Centre to make Aadhaar mandatory for availing benefits of government schemes.The matter has been listed in the apex court for hearing on May 17. A five-judge constitution bench headed by Chief Justice J S Khehar will hear the plea. The same bench is currently hearing a batch of petitions challenging the practice of triple talaq.But, ahead of Supreme Court's hearing, about 63 per cent people have expressed concern about the leakage of their Aadhaar data.MAJORITY CONCERNED ABOUT PRIVACYIn a survey conducted by the LocalCircles - a citizen engagement platform - about 63 per cent of over 10,700 participants said that they were concerned about the leakage of their personal data given to Aadhaar into public domain.In a statement, the LocalCircles said that "details of 13.5 crore Aadhaar accounts were published on a website highlighting vulnerabilities of the system. Also, Aadhaar of students of some Kendriya Vidyalaya schools were found on their websites."This raises the question of misuse of personal data by people or groups with vested interests. According to the survey, many participants questioned the security mechanism of the regulatory body of Aadhaar - the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). WHERE IS THE PROBLEMThe LocalCircles release said, "Some citizens outlined that vendors who make Aadhaar card have been selling information in the market."On the other hand, the vendors enlisted their own problems in providing service to the people in accordance with the rules laid down by the UIDAI. The vendors, the release said, "outlined various concerns including the costs that they incur to become a licensed Aadhaar operator, the high upfront equipment cost and the fact that the UIDAI payment of INR 100 per Aadhaar is usually quite delayed. Therefore it is not lucrative for them to be an operator unless they charge extra from citizens for making Aadhaar or find other ways to earn." However, 70 per cent of the participants of the survey extended their support to the government's emphasis on Aadhaar making it mandatory for filing tax returns and linking it to Permanent Account Number (PAN).Approximately 70 per cent citizens support this move of the government while 27 per cent were against the idea. ALL EYES ON SUPREME COURTThe Supreme Court has repeatedly directed the government not to make Aadhaar mandatory for welfare schemes. First such ruling came in October 2015. But, the apex court later amended its order saying that there was nothing wrong if government made the Aadhaar mandatory for income tax filing or linking with PAN.Now, former chairperson of National Commission For Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) Shanta Sinha has filed a petition challenging various notifications of the government with regard to Aadhaar. Senior lawyer Shyam Divan, appearing for Shanta Sinha said, "Despite the order of this court that Aadhaar will be voluntary and not mandatory, the government has been coming out with a series of notifications making it mandatory to avail benefits of schemes like scholarships, Right to Food and mid-day meal in schools."