Fans will see my romance with Anjali: Sachin on biopic.
Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar's illustrious career and his life off the field has been extensively covered in the upcoming movie 'Sachin - A Billion Dreams'. The film, written and directed by James Erskine, is slated to release on May 26.The trailer, which was released in a star-studded event in Mumbai last month, gave the eager audience a hint of what the film has in store for Tendulkar's fans. With glimpses of key scenes from the film showing moments of cricketing glory, personal moments, unseen footage from the dressing room and much more, the film promises to be every Tendulkar fan's dream come true.The Master Blaster, in an interview with India Today, spoke about what we can expect from the upcoming biopic which has already garnered a lot of attention worldwide."The audience will get to see my romance with Anjali (Tendulkar). How I met my wife and how we took it forward is part of film."The biopic will show things that no one else had access to before. I had to speak with the whole family before coming out with this film. The most important objective is that the fans should have something to take back," Tendulkar told India Today's consulting editor Boria Majumdar in an exclusive chat.Tendulkar has a deep connection with Shivaji Park in Mumbai, the place where he met his coach, Ramakant Achrekar. Tendulkar had the opportunity to relive those days when he went back to the same place to shoot some portions of the film."Going to Shivaji Park again was an emotional moment. Achrekar Sir has been an integral part of my life and I always took his blessings before every tour. Shivaji Park is the place where I had my first net session. I stood on that very pitch once again as we started to shoot at 5.15am."The film will be a mixed bag of the highs and lows of Tendulkar's 24-year career, as revealed by the cricketer himself."The film will cover my highs and lows in various chapters. People will know about my feeling during 2007 World Cup loss, and when I lost my father. Or personal moments which I recorded on mobile," Tendulkar added.The film's music has been composed by the legendary AR Rahman and the songs are already being loved by the masses. Tendulkar said even the current members of the Indian cricket team cannot wait to see the film themselves."Me and my family are very happy with film. The music is wonderful. Each and every song grows on you. That's what a Rahman does you know," Tendulkar stated.The producer of the film Ravi Bhagchandka, said that the last 24 years of his life has been shown here. "When I went to him in 2012 and asked him about making a film on him and said that your story needs to be told as it's an inspiring story. Every Indian must experience this story and even globally...he was hesitant because we all know how private he is.So at first I didn't tell him that he has to act. But having seen everything real on the field, we wanted to see the real Sachin not an actor Sachin. That's what we have done. We have picked up situations from his life over the past 24 years and put him on those situations again and shot in real time. We have archived around 10,000 hours of footage and from that we have made a film of two hours " he said.