Delhi boy forced to drink acid after fight over paneer.
A group of four youth allegedly forced a 17-year-old to drink acid after he reportedly refused to sell them cottage cheese in southeast Delhi?s Sangam Vihar area on Tuesday night.On Monday, Yogesh and his mother Mamta Devi, who run a dairy shop on the ground floor of their house, were at the counter when two youths came to buy cottage cheese around 9pm. When Devi told them the stock was over, the youths reportedly barged inside the shop, insisting that they saw it in the fridge and she cannot refuse to sell it.?I told them that I do not have any left and that they can buy it in the morning once I get the fresh stock but they forcefully entered the shop and started checking the refrigerator,? said Devi. ?My son asked them to leave the shop. The youths overturned the cupboard and even slapped by son when he tried to intervened. When I raised an alarm, the youths left the shop but threatened to return. They got out of the shop, picked up a knife from the vegetable cart parked in the area and threatened to stab my son. They, however, had to leave as many people had gathered by then,? Devi said.Road rage to fight over food bill: Why Delhi is on short fuseThe next day, the youths reportedly returned to the shop with a group of other men when Yogesh was alone in the shop. They held him inside the shop and forced acid down his throat.?Yogesh was about to draw the shutter and come back home. I was waiting for him when I heard a loud scream. I went to see if he was fine and saw a group of boys running out of the shop,? she said. ?When I went downstairs, I saw Yogesh vomiting blood. His entire mouth had burnt and he was seething with pain. We rushed him to the hospital. It was later that I found out that they were the same boys who threatened to kill him yesterday,? she said.DCP southeast, Romil Baaniya said, ?We received a call from the Majeedia Hospital, regarding the admission of Yogesh with acid burns. He was later referred to AIIMS. His sister told us that on the day of incident, three boys, out of them one identified as Golu, poured acid in her brother?s mouth. A case of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons has been registered in the matter. Raids to arrest the youths are on.?