Malaika Arora and Arbaaz Khan's divorce finalised.
Malaika Arora and Arbaaz Khan have finally ended their 18-year marriage. The legal proceedings are all over, and the Bandra family court today granted Malaika and Arbaaz a divorce.It was last November that Malaika and Arbaaz filed for a divorce by mutual consent. Over the last six months, the two actors have been spotted together on numerous occasions. Even yesterday, Malaika and Arbaaz were together along with their son Arhaan at Justin Bieber's concert at the DY Patil stadium in Mumbai. The two went to the court too today in the same car.While Malaika has got custody of the couple's son Arhaan, Arbaaz has been granted visitation rights whenever he wants, says a report in Mid-Day. The ex-couple's lawyers Kranti Sathe and Amruta Sathe Pathak confirmed the news to the tabloid.Last year, after months of rumours that Malaika and Arbaaz's marriage was over, the two finally released an official statement declaring the same.In their joint statement, Malaika and Arbaaz said, "The truth is, we have taken a break, but that doesn't mean people can presume, assume and speculate things of such malicious nature. We are taking out time to figure out our lives... Yes, it's true that we are separated, but where our lives go and what transpires between us, it is for us to decide. Wherever it goes from here, we will talk about it when we are ready to.""We have got a child and our families are involved, but just because we have not said anything till now, it doesn't give anybody the license to speculate on any rubbish about us," added Malaika and Arbaaz.Months of rumours and speculation preceded Malaika and Arbaaz's announcement of separation. While some reports claimed that Malaika was seeing a UK-based businessman, fingers were pointed at Arjun Kapoor too for having caused a rift between the couple. There were rumours that Arjun Kapoor and Malaika were involved in an affair that led to the separation.However, in their joint statement, Malaika and Arbaaz clarified that too. They said, "We are not separated because of a third random person, like there were stories of a friendship between a businessman and Malaika. Nor was it about his family disapproving of her lifestyle, nor does she feel that her husband is not financially stable. She is not crying on her brother-in-law Salman's shoulders, asking him to help. They are our family, so please don't talk about them like that." 