People who criticised my appearance were right: Parineeti.
Parineeti Chopra is making her comeback of sorts in Bollywood. The 28-year-old actor, who was last seen in 2014 film Kill Dil, is gearing up for the release of her upcoming film Meri Pyaari Bindu. In an interview to India Today, she talks about her film, her break, her love for music and Golmaal 4. It has been almost two and a half years since we saw a Parineeti-starrer film. What did you do during this break? If it was two and a half years long, this question was valid. My break was only ten months - I didn't shoot a film for 10 months. I shot the song (Dishoom), did the Dream Tour and I was shooting ads. So this break that everybody has made a thing about really didn't happen. I know this industry is like 'Three days she is not in news, oh she's done'. But never did anybody write me off. I pride myself for the goodwill I earned for the work I did in the first three years. I could hold on to that great work in the beginning and confidently come back with a film two years later.So did you use those 10 months to reassess your career and bring about a change?That was the plan. You are able to really think about what works for you and what you excel at. Adi (Aditya Chopra) and Maneesh (Sharma) were my third eye through that journey and gave me their opinion. I was also working on my fitness. I really had some health issues and had to see a lot of doctors. Let's talk about the Parineeti 2.0. The old Parineeti got a lot of flak for her appearance. How did you cope with all the criticism?When they were criticising me, they were absolutely right. I'd look at that photo and I know that's not me. I'm a very self-assured person which is what makes me real. I'm not showing off by doing so. I have come from that background and family. I knew when I lose the weight, everybody will say that she looks so good. Now I'm in the best-dressed lists. Don't you think actresses face a stern test? Surely it shouldn't all be about 36-24-36.Today 36-24-36 is not the perfect figure. We need to change that stat I feel. Films are a visual medium. They are inspirational. Even when I watch a film, I feel like I want to wear that skirt, have that hair and have a Raj (in my life). Why are films so big? Because they make you cut off (from the real world). If you are not inspirational, then you cannot be on the larger-than-life celluloid. When you are at that global pedestal, you need to inspire - visually, with you performance, voice and dancing. You need to deliver a beautiful image. Fitness is a part of that. And you have been propagating being fit in this new avatar.I have seen the craziest hip-hop dancers who are size 18. They are fit and flexible, so healthy and glowing; (have the) best hair, nails and skin. Fitness does not equal to (being) thin. You need to be your fittest self. It automatically comes from fat loss. People think 'Oh you just go on a treadmill and you lose weight because you want to wear a bikini.' I have been struggling with my weight for 12 years of my life. I couldn't work for more than four hours. I was very big, a UK size 16. My heart and liver were taking a strain, I have an injured knee because of my weight. People don't think of that.Is your approach to picking roles different from before? I definitely feel more responsible towards entertaining the audience. I want to deliver more entertainment value. I definitely want to do an action film. I just hope that they can write a good action character for a girl and it comes to me. I really wanted to do a comedy and I'm doing Golmaal.You are juggling promoting Meri Pyaari Bindu and shooting Golmaal 4. I miss my boys. They are my gang now. Within two days, I was part of that mad team. They literally invest their time, money and skills in playing pranks on each other. When earlier journalists would ask me do you play pranks on sets, I'd be like No. Now [with Golmaal] you are constantly looking behind your back because anything could happen.Rohit Sir (director Rohit Shetty) keeps his team together. They are a seven of us but really it is a cast is of 19 actors.Were you worried that you would get lost in the crowded ensemble?I'm a lover of Golmaal. When Rohit Sir called, I knew I want to do this film; I'm doing this film. Listening to the script was a formality for me. But of course I had to listen to it. I loved my role. I also wanted to work with Rohit Sir. I'd be a tree in his film.Coming back to Meri Pyaari Bindu. How is Bindu different from other romantic comedy heroines?She is irresponsible, doesn't finish things and leaves relationships. She keeps moving cities and jobs. She is not very stable because she wants to fly like a bird, and explore everything and keep trying. That's what makes her stand out. She is not the demure, stereotypical Bollywood heroine of yesteryear. She is spunky. What I do have in common with her is that she loves music and singing, and is energetic. When she enters the room, everybody has to look at what she is doing. We are seeing the lesser-seen musical side of yours in this film. Maneesh Sharma mentioned how you'd sing in the corridors of YRF office. Yes, I used to walk and sing on the first floor when I was working in the marketing department. I think music is what defines me as a person. I really want to take music more seriously. I want to release many more songs and do live shows.