3D film on Ramayana to be made on budget of 500 cr: Reports.
The stupendous box-office success of Baahubali 2: The Conclusion has trigerred a race amongst filmmakers to adapt our mythological epics for the big screen. After reports of a Rs 1000-crore Mahabharata film starring Mohanlal, a Ramayana film is reportedly in the works.According to a report in Mumbai Mirror, three film producers, Allu Aravind, Madhu Mantena and Namit Malhotra are coming together to adapt Ramayana for the big screen. The film will made on an estimated budget of Rs 500 crore and will be released in three languages; Hindi, Telugu and Tamil.Moreover, the new Ramayana film will be filmed in 3D and it will be released in three parts similar to the Lord of the Rings series. Work on the Ramayana script has been on for the past one year.Speaking about the production, Allu Aravind said, "It's a huge responsibility but the Ramayana needs to be told on the big screen in the most magnificent way possible. We are committed to delivering a spectacular extravaganza." Allu Aravind is best known for producing the Telugu blockbuster Magadheera directed by SS Rajamouli."They realised that the epic hasn't been presented on the big screen for many years now, not since Ramanand Sagar's Ramayan with Arun Govil and Deepika Chikhalia as Ram and Sita was telecast on Doordarshan in 1987-88, followed by another adaption of the epic by Sagar Arts in 2008 with Gurmeet Choudhary and Debina Bonnerjee in the lead. They wanted to bring the epic to the big screen this time," a source was quoted as saying.Producer Namit Malhotra, whose company Prime Focus has handled the visual effects for films such as Star Wars, Transformers and The Martian, said that he is looking forward to raising the bar of Indian cinema with the new Ramayana film."Three generations of my family have been in the movies and we have a world-leading capability in bringing such stories to life. There cannot be a better time and opportunity to tell the greatest Indian story to the world in a way that preserves its respect and vision. The partnership with Allu sir and Madhu has aligned me with the best partners who share the same vision and passion to make this a cinematic experience all Indians can be proud of," said Malhotra.