My father and I have a crush on Tabu: Ayushmann Khurrana.
Ayushmann Khurrana, who will be next seen in Meri Pyaari Bindu opposite Parineeti Chopra, talks about his his role in the film, his journey in Bollywood and his upcoming projects. How did Meri Pyaari Bindu come to you?I had read this script three years back. That time Yash Raj Films was not producing it. I was very excited about it. Back then they were looking for a girl for the part and couldn't find one. Suddenly, Adi Sir [Aditya Chopra] called to say that there is this script called Side B Love. That was its title then. I knew I loved it. It was so novel and nostalgic. Suprotim [Sengupta] expresses beautifully with his words. You play a pulp fiction writer. Have you read any? That writing is not my zone. I am not a fan. In Meri Pyaari Bindu, I'm a Hindi writer. There are some raunchy titles like Awara Dhoban and Chudail ki Choli. I imagine Bindu in every character. The film thrives on nostalgia, and nostalgia never gets dated right? Yes. It just gets better. But this is not all about the past. It's a life journey of these characters from 5 to 35. It is also set in current time.Bindu and Abhimanyu make a mix-tape. Have you made a mix-tape for somebody?Of course. For myself and my first girlfriend who went on to become my wife. I made her a 90-minute Hindi English mix. There was no graph. It was random. There was a Kishore Kumar "Pal Pal Dil Ke Paas" and then suddenly Bryan Adams' "Best of Me".Your brother Aparshakti Khurana has also taken to films. Is there a rivalry now?There could be no rivalry because there is so much of love. I am a protective brother. He respects me a lot. Though there is a difference of three years, he touches my feet. He does it in front of everybody deliberately. And I'm like Ghar pe kar le, but he will do it even at award shows. He has been doing so since childhood so he suddenly won't change his ways. We look similar but we are so different. I was a co-curricular captain of the school. He was the captain of the sports team. He has captained the Haryana under-19 cricket team. He is one of thode rare Punjabis who can speak fluent Haryanvi too which is why he fit so well in Dangal too. Your career graph is defined by playing the loveable fool in romantic comedies such as Vicky Donor, Dum Laga Ke Haisha, Meri Pyaari Bindu. But you are now turning things around by working with Sriram Raghavan. Tell us about it.I think you need time for everything. You have to establish yourself as a guy next door, and then do something radical later. If you try something radical with every film, then you will get exhausted.  You are limited some way or the other even if you are multi-talented. Though a lot of thrillers were being offered to me, I wanted a Sriram Raghavan thriller. He is the master of thrillers. This is the perfect time for that metamorphosis. This is the most challenging role of my life.And you are working with Tabu.Oh My God, she is stunning. My father and I both have a crush on her. I start shooting it in June.   Then there's Shubh Mangal Savdhan, a remake of a Tamil film, with Bhumi Pednekar.It is the antithesis of Vicky Donor. I play a guy who has erectile dysfunction. The filmmaker, RS Prasanna, calls it a spiritual remake of the original. It came out in 2012 and  was seen as the Vicky Donor of south even though the topics are different. Shubh Mangal Savdhan is radical, quirky and a family film despite the topic.Are you happy with the movie offers coming your way?I am fortunate that I have been a part of two National Award-winning films in five years. I am getting good choices being part of boutique management of Yash Raj where they handle a fixed number of actors. I am pretty content. Would you want to try action, a genre that heroes want to have in their filmography?I started with an unconventional film and I am unconventional in a way. I want to just own that space. I want to be myself. If everybody aspires to be a conventional, commercial hero, who will become the Amol Palekar and Farooq Sheikh of this generation? 