Muslims who join RSS, BJP to be beaten: Shahi Imam of mosque.
Maulana Nurur Rehman Imam Barkati of Tipu Sultan Mosque on Tuesday called the supporters of RSS 'eunuchs' and has challenged them to fight like men. Imam Barkati is infamous for his anti-Bharatiya Janata Party stand. Here's what Imam Barkati said: "I don't know about any Trinamool Congress leader owning any kind of expensive properties. I have not even seen Sudip owning any kind of expensive properties. The government can never get hold of the actual culprit. Instead, the government officials are busy taking bribes and interrogating the innocents. I don't have any problem with CPI(M) and Congress, but anyone from Bharatiya Janata Party coming here would not be treated well, instead would be beaten."Imam added, "I challenge the RSS to stop being eunuchs and be brave enough to fight like men. The Indian law gives biased judgements, and especially when the justice is demanded from the Muslim community. Triple talaq has been followed since ages and is a religious process. There has never been any problem and cannot change in any possible way."Maulana Nurur Rehman Imam Barkati also said that he will continue to use the red-beacon as permission for it was given by the erstwhile " British Government"."I will remove red beacon once everyone does the same. I will continue to use as I have got permission from British government," Barkati said.When the reporters clarified that Indian government and not the the British government had passed the order, Imam Barkati said, "The Indian government first needs to make its own law, they have not formulated any laws."Bharatiya Janata Party leader C.K. Bose branded Imam Burkati anti-national and said, "I think he should be immediately arrested and put behind the bars as no one is allowed to break the law."Imam Barkati is already infamous for issuing a fatwa against Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his decision to demonetise old Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes.(With inputs from ANI) Also Read:Kolkata imam retaliates with Rs 22 lakh bounty against BJP leader who issued fatwa against Mamata Banerjee