Bhagwant Mann made AAP Punjab Chief, asked to quit drinking.
In a bid to placate Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, Aam Aadmi Party convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today made him the chief of the party's Punjab unit.Sources said the decision was taken at a meeting held at Kejriwal's official residence. Kejriwal has also put a condition on Mann that he should stop drinking otherwise he would be removed from his post, the sources added.Mann is infamous due to his drinking habits. Even in the run-up to the Punjab Assembly elections, several video clips had surfaced showing him in inebriated condition. Despite his habits, Mann has been given a chance to lead Punjab.However, Kejriwal's attempt at mollifying has offended other leaders. AAP's chief whip in the Punjab Assembly, Sukhpal Singh Khaira, quit his post in protest the appointment of Mann as AAP's Punjab unit chief.Besides, Gurpreet Singh Waraich 'Ghuggi', who has been replaced by Mann as the state chief, is also learnt to be upset at his removal.About a fortnight ago, Mann had lashed out at AAP's leadership for the party's defeat in the Punjab Assembly elections. Taking a completely different stand from that of the top party leaders including Arvind Kejriwal, Bhagwant Mann had said AAP lost Punjab not because of any tampering of EVMs but the blunders committed by the party's leadership.He had blamed the leadership for committing grave blunders in preparing strategy for the Punjab Assembly election.Mann was on the verge of quitting AAP. He had  indicated the option of exploring alternatives. Coming down heavily on AAP leadership, he had said the party functioned like a "mohalla cricket team".Mann had shared his concerns with Arvind Kejriwal. He had also apprised the Delhi CM of the blunders committed by the party's leadership. He was in favour of projecting a chief ministerial candidate. He blamed the over confidence of some leaders associated with the AAP's central leadership spoiled all the political game.