Filing FIR against you, bless me: Kapil Mishra to Kejriwal.
A day after his suspension from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), a belligerent Kapil Mishra sought party convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's "blessings" before he files cases against him before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) today."Bless me, I am filing an FIR against you," Mishra, 36, said in an early morning press conference in New Delhi where he read out a letter he wrote to the AAP convener.Mishra also today Kejriwal to resign and contest election against him "to let people decide who is more honest". "You have every one on your side and I'm alone. But I am ready to fight... I have learnt to fight corruption from you only," Mishra said "You take me out of the Assembly, it makes no difference. Both of us should resign and contest each other in any seat of a choice. We should fight an election and let the public decide," he dared Kejriwal.BRIBERY CHARGE AGAINST KEJRIWALMishra has alleged he saw Delhi's Health Minister Satyendar Jain hand over Rs 2 crore in cash to Kejriwal while he was also present in the room. He has also alleged that Jain had told him he had settled a Rs 50 crore land deal in favour of Kejriwal's brother-in-law.Cracking the whip on Monday evening, the AAP's high-powered Political Affairs Committee (PAC) chaired by Kejriwal suspended Mishra from the party's primary membership.With this, Mishra became the fifth AAP MLA -- after Sandeep Kumar, Asim Ahmed Khan, Devendra Sehrawat and Amanatullah Khan -- to be suspended from the party since it stormed to power in the national capital two years ago. Kejriwal later on Monday night indicated that he would answer on Tuesday on the graft allegations levelled against him by Mishra. "Truth will triumph. Its beginning will be made during the special session of the Delhi Assembly tomorrow," Kejriwal tweeted amid turmoil in his party.Also read | Kapil Mishra offered no concrete 'documents' to back bribery allegation against Arvind Kejriwal: ACB sourcesAlso read | Kejriwal breaks silence on Kapil Mishra's allegations: Truth will win