Arvind Kejriwal asked me to pay ?5 cr: Ousted AAP MLA .
Launching a scathing attack against Kejriwal, ousted Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Asim Ahmed Khan said Kejriwal and his aides demanded Rs 5 crore from him and the party has turned into a private limited company.Talking about his expulsion, Khan said false charges were framed against him when he tried to question the party's way of working. "The ones who are supporting Kejriwal are his own people. Everybody's secrets are confided among each other. He is the same Kejriwal who demanded Rs 5 crore from me," Khan said.Extending support to ousted AAP MLA Kapil Mishra, Khan said the way the former has shown confidence reflects there is genuineness in his claim. Khan then narrated the incident under which he became a victim of the party's corruption and was therefore, ousted from the party.ASIM KHAN'S ALLEGATIONS"I am not putting these allegations today. I talked about this at the time of Punjab elections. They needed Rs 25 crore to buy cable network out of which Rs 5 crore was asked from me," he said."The rest Rs 20 crore was asked from four other MLAs. They formed a team which went after me to pressurise me to give money. Then they started warning me that if I want to remain minister, I will have to give the money. I said they can remove me, but I won't give money. I was then framed under false charges and removed from the party. Now when there are allegations against Kejriwal and Satyendra Jain, why isn't any action being taken?" he said.It is not only rebels, but even leaders within the party have started questioning Kejriwal's silence on the allegations levelled by Mishra.AAP's Punjab convenor Gurpreet Ghuggi said since the allegations are serious and have been levelled by a former cabinet minister, workers expect a statement from the AAP chief. Ghuggi said though he has faith in Kejriwal, but he must explain his position.Also Read:Kejriwal bribe bomb: Kapil Mishra suspended; Is this the beginning of AAP's end?Sacked minister Kapil Mishra suspended from Aam Aadmi Party