Muslim family donates its land for a temple in Bihar.
Bihar has been by and large free from any major communal trouble, barring a few reported cases of tension, in the last few years.Muslims form 16.5 per cent of Bihar's 105 million population. In the Seemanchal region, they account for nearly 67 per cent in Kishanganj, 37 per cent in Purnea, 43 per cent in Katihar and nearly 40 per cent in Araria.In times like these when hate crimes are surging, a Muslim family in Bihar donated their land for the upgradation of a temple in Bihar.The temple is in Bihar's Gopalganj district.MUSLIM FAMILY DONATES LAND FOR TEMPLETabarak Dewan and his son Manu Dewan who are residents of Ahirauli Dubauli Tola Takia under Gopalpur police station came forward and donated their land.THE LAND FOR THE TEMPLEThe land is near NH 28 which the Muslim family gave for the construction of the main gate of the historical temple at Bathanakuti in Bihar.The Muslim family purchased the land for Rs 12 lakh a few months ago for setting up a business.RENOVATION OF THE TEMPLE AT BATHANAKUTI"By donating their costly land, the Muslim family has helped us to beautify the historical temple at Bathanakuti, which is under renovation. If they had refused to donate their land, it would have been impossible to construct the main gate of the temple. Thanks to their gesture now the temple's main gate will be constructed on their donated land," Amrender Kumar alias Pappu Pandey, ruling JD-U legislator of Kuchaikot, said.According to JD-U legislator Pappu, another Muslim -- Aali Raza -- also donated land for the construction of the same historic temple. Aali Raza is a resident of Ramaina village in Kushinagar district in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, termed it a symbol of communal harmony."We have been living here for decades and taking care of each other. It is a gesture for communal harmony. We have decided to donate land for a good cause. All religions are the same," Manu Dewan said.MUSLIMS HAVE HELPED BUILD HINDU TEMPLES MANY TIMESThe aforementioned case is not the first such case.Two years ago, in a demonstration of communal harmony, some Muslims in Bihar's east Champaran district donated land to help build a Hindu temple. The temple is the world's largest Hindu temple which will have the capacity to seat 20,000 people. "Muslims have not only donated land, they have also provided land at a nominal rate for construction of the world's largest Hindu temple. Without help of Muslims, it would have been difficult to realise this dream project," Acharya Kishore Kunal, secretary of the Patna-based cash-rich Mahavir Mandir Trust that is undertaking the ambitious project, said.