Anyone can make mistakes: Nirbhaya gangrape convict's sister.
In a one bedroom set in the narrow lanes of Ravi Das Camp in RK Puram, that has a small kitchen and an LED TV fixed on the distempered wall, lives the family of Pawan Gupta - one of the four convicts, who will be hanged till death in the Nirbhaya gang rape case.His parents were at the court while his younger sister (name withheld), who has taken class 10 examination, stayed back at home. She was sitting right in front of the television when the news broke on the Supreme Court's verdict.In a high-tone, she told Mail Today that every one commits crime in India and anyone can do a mistake. And at least, he should be given a second chance to rectify it. "But the court has not given a second chance to my brother," she said.When asked about the brutality of the crime committed by his brother in 2012, she said: "Ladki hassi toh fassi" adding that it is not always the boy's fault. The girls too provoke them. "Even I wear jeans and other western clothes. If a guy stares at me or passes any comment, I simply look down and walk away. But, if I start enjoying it then the boy will think that I am giving him a signal," she said defending his brother's act."After the arrest of Pawan, my family has shattered. We have sent the youngest brother, who is 8-year-old, to an undisclosed location, so that he does not have to face regular harassment from locals and peer groups. We have already lost one of our sisters, who was 16-year-old when she died due to mental trauma, she was undergoing after the incident."I haven't met my brother since February 2016, when he came back to attend the last rites of my sister. Whenever my parents go to Tihar jail to meet him, they don't take me along saying that there are bad people in the jail," she added."I have lost all my school friends because of the tainted image but I still love my brother," she said in a choked voice. Mail Today also visited the houses of Ram Singh, Mukesh and Vinay Sharma in the JJ Cluster but all of them were found locked.Meanwhile, the residents of Ravi Das Camp had given mixed reactions on the judgment. Some said it's a right decision while others second the accused saying that they all are neighbours and they have a soft corner for them.