Australia to sell Kesar variety of Indian mango for 1st time.
From Natasha Chaku Melbourne, May 5 (PTI) For the first time, Australia will sell Kesar variety of Indian mangoes with the inaugural consignment of nearly 400 trays landing in Sydney, but marketing firms called it a "little disappointing" as the fruit was a little blemish and not evenly coloured. The first consignment was received by Perfection Fresh Australia (PFA), Australias largest fresh-produce marketing company, after recently revised protocols that allowed Indian mango imports if the fruit was treated with irradiation prior to export. "The first consignment, Ive got to say, was a little disappointing," PFA chief executive Michael Simonetta said, adding "the fruit had a little bit of blemish on the skin and wasnt as evenly coloured as we expected it to be, so were in the process now of getting it to colour more evenly and then offer it for sale following that." "The eating quality is quite nice. Its pleasant to eat. The feedback has been okay and the upside for me as a consumer is that it tastes better than the Mexican Keitt (mangoes) that are in the market as well at the moment," he said. Simonetta said the mangoes would predominantly end up with independent retailers. "We have shown them to the major supermarkets, but at the moment the volumes are far too light. This is a trial and its yet to be concluded, so while Im a little bit underwhelmed, its too early to call." The next consignment of Kesar mangoes will be sent to Perth next week while imports of Alphonso mangoes would also begin soon. "The variety Im really excited about, is in a few weeks time well bring in the Alphonso mango which is known as the king of mango," he said. "Its got a very high profile in India and across the world and I think the whole programme of importation of mangoes from India will be judged on the success or otherwise of the Alphonso mango." Simonetta said it was too early to tell how many tonnes would be exported to Australia this season. "My hope is that we can bring into the country a good tasting mango, which the Alphonso is, counter-seasonally to supplement the mango lovers desire for fruit in the Australian off-season," he said. "The trade will be judged fairly and squarely, wholly and solely by the Australian consumer. If the consumer tells us they like this mango and there is a need for it then well bring it in, if they tell us otherwise then well follow their lead." 