I'm ashamed: Mamata on BJP leader's 'hijra' remark.
West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee today become emotional while reacting to a state BJP leaders derogatory remarks against her last week.Speaking at a public rally in Malda district, in a visibly angry and emotional outburst Banerjee said, "I feel ashamed to say this, recently I heard a BJP leader's speech on TV while he was asking whether Mamata Banerjee is a woman or man or a Hijra. I am ashamed (of such remarks). I have taken birth on this soil. If it was some other state they would have been given a befitting reply. How dare they question my birth, my identity, my parents! Who are they Even we worship Lord Ram, that Ram who worshipped Maa Durga."Last week, a BJP leader from West Midnapore district Shyamapada Mondal had made the controversial remark about the Trinamool Congress supremo that triggered widespread condemnation across the state. Accusing Banerjee of indulging in politics of appeasement, Mandal said, "Today it's difficult to make out whether Mamata Banerjee is a man or a woman, I'd say she has become a 'hijra' (eunuch)."Following the remark, police had registered an FIR against Mandal after a complaint by the Trinamool Congress in the district. "We had raised the slogan, Bodla Noy Bodol Chai, (want change, not vendetta) thus we haven't booked them yet. Those who are threatening us saying that they will put us behind bars should remember even we have several cases ready against them," Mamata reminded.Continuing her tirade against the BJP led government at the Centre, Mamata once against questioned the Aadhar project. "Now they want Aadhar card for cows too, just imagine. They want Aadhar for breakfast, lunch and dinner as if Aadhar is enough to fill your stomach," Banerjee said.Terming the BJP leadership as "fake Hindus" Mamata slammed the saffron brigade for taking out armed rallies on Ram Navami. "People do not need to take up arms on behalf of religion," she said.Also read:Didi a hijra: BJP leader launches attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee