Gautam Gambhir not the friendliest Indian player: Afridi.
The Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) has asked the BCCI to select the Indian team for the ICC Champions Trophy after a prolonged standoff with the world governing body over the revenue model.The CoA has also assured Virat Kohli that India will get to defend the Champions Trophy which they won in 2013 and now it seems like it's a matter of time before the Indian team for the coveted tournament is made public.With the air finally beginning to clear on India's particiption, the big talking point would be the much-awaited clash against Pakistan to be played at Edgbaston in a month's time.Former Pakistan skipper Shahid Afridi, in a column for the ICC, has said he was as excited as millions of fans around the world and looking forward to a "highly entertaining match between the two traditional rivals, who have a rich cricketing history between them."India are yet to lose to Pakistan in either the World Cup or the World T20 but lost twice to their arch-rivals in the Champions Trophy - 2004 (Edgbaston) and 2009 (Centurion).There is little doubt the Edgbaston game between India and Pakistan on June would be emotionally charged-up as all matches between the sub-continental powerhouses are. However, Afridi, the protagonist of several India-Pakistan clashes in the past, said players from both teams get along well with each other. "Contrary to popular belief, India and Pakistan players get along very well. Of course, there are exceptions like Gautam Gambhir, who dare I say isn't the friendliest." Afridi wrote in the column. "We are unlikely to be found together at a coffee shop anytime soon. We had a heated exchange on the field some years ago and it made headlines all over the world. While I have moved on in life as I feel these things are part and parcel of the game, Gautam for some reason can't get over it. Good luck to him!"Gambhir and Afridi were involved in an ugly spat in Kanpur during the third ODI of Pakistan's tour of India in 2007. The umpire had to intervene frayed tempers.Afridi went on to explain that he enjoyed "excellent relationships" with the likes of Yuvraj Singh, Zaheer Khan and Harbhajan Singh.