Why is there such fear: Mamata on Kajol's 'beef' statement.
West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee today reacted sharply to Bollywood actor Kajol's controversy where the actor reportedly clarified what meat she had eaten recently.Speaking at a public rally in North Dinajpur district, Mamata said the actor had come up with the clarification out of fear. She said there was an environment of fear in which everyone was operating.Slamming the BJP, she said, "Why is there such fear? Whom should we fear? Since I'm always vocal, they threaten us with the CBI and the ED; threaten us with jail all the time. But let me tell them, even if you put entire Trinamool Congress in jail, I don't care. People will give you a fitting reply.""They only know how to create riots. They are not in favour of Hindu religion, they are a blot on the name of Hinduism," Banerjee added. The Trinamool Congress supremo's comment comes after the actor tweeted a clarification that a video that she had earlier shared on social media was not of beef but "legal" buffalo meat."A video of me at a friend's lunch said that there was a beef dish at the table. That's a miscommunication. What was shown was buffalo meat, that is legally available meat. I'm issuing this clarification because this is a sensitive matter that may hurt religious sentiments, which is not my intention," Kajol has tweeted on Monday soon after her video went viral a day before.KAJOL CLARIFIED IT WAS NOT BEEF Though the actor has removed the video from her Facebook page, it has already gone viral. In the video, Kajol is seen visiting a restaurant whose chef is her friend. When Kajol asks her friend about a dish that he had served, he explains it as "beef pepper water with dry lentils and dry beef". Following which Kajol is heard joking "We are going to cut his hands off after this."However, soon after the post, social media went abuzz with many questioning her given husband and actor Ajay Devgn had campaigned for the BJP, which seeks beef ban across the country.The Bengal chief minister's outcry on the matter is not new. Last month, she had accused the BJP of spreading canards about her over her trip to the Jagannath temple in Puri. "They (BJP) have spread canards that I eat beef! But what I eat is my choice. They are liars spreading canards over social media," Banerjee had said then. Also read: Mamata: BJP spreading canards that I eat beef, spending crores on social media to tarnish my imageAlso read: Kajol's beef clarification: Has the fear of gau rakshaks spread to celebs?