Kumar Vishwas not to leave AAP, made Rajasthan chief.
The Aam Adami Party averted crisis on Wednesday, as a compromise was reached with one of its founder leaders, Kumar Vishwas, at the meeting of political affairs committee. The meeting that  was held at the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, lasted almost three hours. Addressing the media later, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan had been suspended from the party for his remarks against Vishwas, who had been given charge of the party?s Rajathsan wing. The party?s dismal performance in MCD elections ushered a phase of crisis with discordant voices emerging from within. Vishwas had started slugfest party after he challenged the party line of blaming EVMs for defeat in MCD polls. Here are the Live updates:5.40pm: After the crisis blew over on Wednesday afternoon, Kumar Vishwas also tweeted a couplet expressing resolve to ?fight darkness? and thanking supporters. "??? ?????? ?? ????? ?? ?????? ??? ?? ???? ???? ?? ????? ????? ?? ?? ??????? ?? ???? ??"?????????! ???????!????! ???? ???? ?? ??!? Dr Kumar Vishvas (@DrKumarVishwas) May 3, 20175.20pm: Sources said while the party has seemed to have doused rumours of Kumar Vishwas? exit for now, it is yet to address several issues that followed its electoral debacle. There has also been no clarification on the party line on EVMs, which had sparked the current crisis. 5.05pm: In September last year, Khan had resigned from all posts in Delhi government, hours before a sexual harassment case was filed against him by a ?relative?.4.55pm: AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan, who was placed under suspension for his remarks against Vishwas, was the centre of several controversies last year. In November, he was booked by CBI for irregularities in operations of Delhi Waqf Board when he was its chairman.4.40pm: The party seems to have averted internal crisis after the meeting of its Political Affairs Committee, where dissident leader Kumar Vishwas was placated. Vishwas had indicated earlier that he might quit the party. 4.30pm: Senior leaders Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh reach party office at Rouse Avenue. 4.18pm: After the PAC meeting, Vishwas had welcomed the party decision to act against Okhla MLA saying that the leadership made it clear that mud-slinging on the top leadership would not be tolerated. ? The morale of the party workers saw a boost. Their belief has increased that leadership does not tolerate any sort of indiscipline. The party has given a clear message that it would not compromise on corruption, nationalism and its workers,? Vishwas told ANI. 4.08pm: Manish Sisodia leaves Amanatullah Khan?s residence after personally conveying the party?s decision to suspend him. 3.58pm: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia reaches the house of Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan after the party?s committee decided to suspend him for his remarks against Kumar Vishwas.  3.48pm: After the compromise on Wednesday,  Kumar Vishwas will now hold the post of Rajasthan unit chief. Vishwas, who is a founder member of AAP, has so far been a member of the party?s political affairs committee and has been responsible for the overseas funding. 3.38pm: Delhi chief minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal and senior leader Sanjay Singh tweeted a picture of AAP leaders, including Kumar Vishwas, saying that the ?AAP family? is united. The tweet came soon after a high-level committee meeting ended in compromise, averting crisis in the party.   AAP ?????? ????? ??,??? ?????????? ??????? ?? ????? pic.twitter.com/EHMs1B3kRw? Sanjay Singh AAP (@SanjayAzadSln) May 3, 20173.28pm: The AAP announced a three-member committee of party leaders Pankaj Gupta, Atishi Marlena and Ashutosh to look into Khan?s allegations against Kumar Vishwas.3.18pm: Amanatullah Khan, who was placed under suspension, stood by his statement against Kumar Vishwas saying that it was his ?personal opinion?. He also added that he respects the party?s decision in this regard. 3.08pm:  Sisodia said Kumar Vishwas had been given the task of strengthening the AAP in Rajasthan and the party ?will fight election in the state under his leadership?.  The state will undergo assembly elections next year.  The party had said last year, that it will field candidates in the Rajasthan polls.2.56pm: Kumar Vishwas thanks supporters and reasserts stand against corruption.?I am grateful to the people who stood by me. I also assure everyone that there will be no obstacle in our fight against corruption that started from Jantar Mantar and got us all together,? he says. 2.46pm: ?I assure you that whenever there is a conflict, we will have a dialogue and discuss things. Secondly, as I said earlier, no one should be under the impression that I will ever be a CM or Deputy CM out of this party. But I agree that there were some discussions that were necessary and they are happening now,? says Kumar Vishwas. 2.36pm: After the three-hour meeting on Wednesday, AAP crisis seemed to have been resolved as leaders reached a compromise with Kumar Vishwas. Party supporters who had gathered outside the residence of Arvind Kejriwal, raised slogans in support of Vishwas after he announced the decision to continue in the party.  Volunteers raising slogans in support of @DrKumarVishwas @msisodia & @ArvindKejriwal @htTweets @htdelhi pic.twitter.com/a3CTuZohCt? Heena Kausar (@heenakausar19) May 3, 20172.26pm: Manish Sisodia says a three-member panel will be formed to look into the statement by Amanatullah Khan against Kumar Vishwas. The latter had taken exception to Khan?s statement that billed him an agent of RSS-BJP.  2.16pm: Kumar Vishwas made in-charge  of the party?s unit in Rajasthan.  2.07pm: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia says Amanatullah Khan, who accused Vishwas of being a BJP-RSS agent, has been  suspended from the party.2.03pm: Kumar Vishwas emerges with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia to address the media. Sources say that a compromise has been reached.1.57pm: Meeting of AAP?s political affairs committee is over and  it is sources say that a ?compromise has been reached? with Kumar Vishwas, who reportedly had some conditions to remain within the party fold. Party leaders are expected to address media soon.1.49pm:  Sources say Kumar Vishwas wants the party to take action against MLA Amanatullah Khan who had called him agent of BJP and RSS and alleged that he was trying to stage a coup in the party. Khan had quit as member of PAC after over 30 MLAs signed a letter asking the leadership to expel him.  @DrKumarVishwas, who has backing of some MLAs,wants AAP to take action against #AmanatullahKhan for calling him "BJP agent":sources@htdelhi? Heena Kausar (@heenakausar19) May 3, 20171.39pm: The party has also came under criticism from Arvind Kejriwal?s former Jan Lokpal movement allies ? Anna Hazare, Yogendra Yadav and Prashant Bhushan ? after MCD elections.  The three blamed the party leadership for failing to live up to expectations and losing mandate within a short period of time1.29pm: As the meeting of AAP?s PAC members stretches over two hours, petitioners related to different issues have also gathered outside the venue seeking a meeting with the chief minister.  1.19pm: Nine members of the AAP?s political affairs committee are attending the meeting. These include:  Arvind Kejriwal,Manish Sisodia, Sanjay Singh, Kumar Vishwas, Gopal Rai, Ashutosh, Durgesh Pathak, Atishi Marlena and Sadhu Singh.1.09pm: Top AAP leaders have been in a huddle at Arvind Kejriwal?s house for almost two hours now. The meeting of the party?s political Affairs Committee was called after key leader Kumar Vishwas hinted at quitting the party a day ago.   12.59pm: The party was expected to restructure itself after its electoral losses. It was reported that Kejriwal could rejig his Cabinet to bring in Dalit face and spruce up the government. The first PAC meeting after the results, however, only ratified the decision to make Gopal Rai the convener of party?s Delhi unit.  12.48pm: Anxious party volunteers have gathered outside the residence of Arvind Kejriwal  where the party?s highest decision making body is holding a meeting to resolve differences.12.38pm: While the AAP has been reeling under electoral losses, the BJP is consolidating position in the Capital after its victory in MCD polls. On Tuesday, when AAP was trying to quell dissidents, Amit Shah said the BJP now aims to come to power in Delhi assembly.@AamAadmiParty volunteers gathering outside CM residence where PAC meeting going on to resolve issues with #KumarVishwas@htTweets @htdelhi pic.twitter.com/QhSdzS0uJS? Heena Kausar (@heenakausar19) May 3, 201712.28pm: A section of AAP MLAs also held a separate meeting with Kumar Vishwas early on Wednesday, but the details were not immediately available. The developments come a day after Vishwas threatened to quit the party in an emotional outburst.12.20pm: Contrary to party?s stand, Vishwas did not blame EVMs after the polls and held the leadership responsible. He blamed a ?coterie? within AAP for its election reverses. 12.03pm:  Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia had also visited Vishwas on Tuesday.  ?He is angry but will come around. We are going to my place to have tea,? Kejriwal said after the meeting which was also attended by Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh.  11.43am: Amid rumours that the party could be headed for a split, Kumar Vishwas broke down while talking to reporters earlier this week. Vishwas has, in the past too, taken stand against personality-driven politics.  He had, last month, released a 14-minute video in which he hinted that all was not well within the party. 11.39am: With the high-level party meeting underway, sources said that Vishwas will not compromise on issues of volunteers, nationalism and corruption. They said he could be expected to take big decision at the meeting.11.25am:The party?s defeat in MCD elections, that followed its rout in Assembly polls two months ago, also triggered resignations by leaders, descending the party into turmoil.  The party?s Delhi convener Dilip Pandey, Punjab in-charge Sanjay Singh and Punjab co-observer Durgesh Pathak, were among those who sent their resignations@DrKumarVishwas will not compromise on issue of volunteers, nationalism & corruption. To take big decision in #AAP PAC:sources@htdelhi? Heena Kausar (@heenakausar19) May 3, 201711.15am: After defeat in Assembly elections the party had blamed the electronic voting machines. However, this stand did not get support of all party members, including Kapil Mishra. The issue opened fault lines as Vishwas also took a stand against the party line. 11.07am: Kumar Vishwas has reached chief minister Arvind Kejriwal?s residence in Civil Lines to attend the meeting. This is the second meeting of the party?s political affairs committee in this week over the rift within the party. 10.58am: The party?s political affairs committee will meet at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal?s residence to settle difference with poet-turned-politician Kumar Vishwas.10.50am: The party?s political affairs committee had also met on Tuesday after reports of rift and allegations against Vishwas by MLA Amanatullah Khan. Khan resigned as a member of the committee after over 30 AAP MLAs signed a letter urging the top leadership to expel him. 10.40am: Arvind Kejriwal had tried to douse reports of conflict between him and Vishwas on Monday. ?Kumar is my younger brother. Some people are showing that there is a rift between us, they are enemies of the party. They should refrain from this. No one can separate us,? he had tweeted hours after AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan took to social media alleging that Vishwas was trying to take over the party and has been asking MLAs to make him the national convener.