Dia Mirza walks the ramp for Anju Modi at India Couture Week.
Actress-producer Dia Mirza, who is also a nature lover, felt overjoyed to walk in a creation inspired by nature on the ramp.Dia closed designer Anju Modi's India Couture Week show on Thursday by sashaying down the "environment-friendly" runway in a traditional outfit, which is a part of the 'Sunehri Kothi' (Golden chalet) collection."Thank you for making me a part of this. I am a complete nature lover, but I can't imagine art, motifs inspired by nature. This collection really depicts that," Dia said while praising Anju."She has been responsible for safeguarding our heritage. She has taken handicrafts and textiles to the next level. I felt exquisite wearing this beautifully handcrafted outfit."It's delicate, intricate and has a resonance of an era gone by," added the actress, who looks up to her mother for style.According to her, every little girl looks up to her mother."All of my life, I remember looking up to my mother's starry eyes--my mother has an amazing personality. All this intrigued me about her.""The way she carried herself, her personality reflected so strongly in anything that she wore. That's what completes your garment. It's your character and your personality," said Dia.The "Bajirao Mastani" designer chose a good combination of green and maroon for her lehenga in organza. The maroon, full-sleeve, velvet blouse and off-white and golden dupatta that she wore around her head, and heavy jewellery and make-up made her look like she had just finished shooting a period film."I took inspiration from the miniature art of 16th Century Rajasthan, especially Kishangarh. Dia looks like a princess from Rajasthan," said Anju, who used cow and deer motifs for her collection.Also Read: Disha Patani to Athiya Shetty: The star-studded runway of ICW 2017Anju relived the mystique of Radha, with her sharp features dressed in lehengas made from hand-woven textiles, and worn with fitted blouses.She took cue from architectural and artistic influences of the craft of Meenakari, the intricate and detailed brushwork, the remnants of the colours -- handmade from minerals, vegetables, indigo, and embellished with precious stones, pure gold and silver.Many of her designs are inspired by the Kishangarh School of Art that Princess Vaishnavi Kumari of Kishangarh personally introduced to her.Vaishnavi's art finds great resonance in Anju's collection, which shone bright, thanks to Vishal Jewels' uncut diamonds, polkies and rubies that were flaunted by the models, who moved to the sound of flute, sarangi and the voice of a classical singer.