UP CM approves GST, new transfer policy.
Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath today chaired the state cabinet meeting wherein he took several important decisions, including implementing the Goods and Services Tax (GST) in the state.The meeting which lasted for an hour also saw the Yogi Adityanath cabinet deciding to scrap manual tendering process in government departments and replacing it with online tendering.HERE ARE THE FIVE MAJOR DECISIONS TAKEN BY THE YOGI ADITYANATH CABINET:Implementation of GST:  The Yogi Adityanath cabinet approved the implementation of the GST in Uttar Pradesh and the same will passed in the Assembly session on May 16. "The revenue of the state is likely to increase after implementation of the GST in the first session of this government," said minister Suresh Kumar Khanna.E-tendering in state departments:  Online tendering process will be introduced in all state government departments. The Yogi Adityanath government has set a three-month deadline for all departments to make the switch. The aim is to bring greater transparency in the tendering and procurement process.New transfer policy: The Yogi Adityanath cabinet approved a new transfer policy under which 20 per cent officers and employees who have completed three years in district or seven years in a division will be eligible for transfer. The policy covers employees under group A and group B. Differently-abled have been kept out of this policy. Foundation Day on January 24: The Uttar Pradesh cabinet decided to celebrate January 24 as the state's foundation day.  The state's information, tourism and culture departments will be roped in the annual celebrations. The foundation day celebrations will be held even outside the state, the Yogi Adityanath cabinet decided. Fertiliser factory in Gorakhpur gets a push: The Adityanath cabinet decided to exempt stamp duty on transfer of land for the fertiliser factory in Gorakhpur. In 2016, the Central government had decided to make an investment to revive the factory, but the pace slackened in the past one year. Farmers will benefit from the factory.(With inputs from Mausami Singh)ALSO READ:Jackets, saris, towels, even microphone wires: In Yogi's UP, it's saffron, saffron and more saffron 