Railways denies food scam, says RTI reply had typing errors.
Central Railways on Tuesday issued a clarification on reports of a scam that alleged its catering department had purchased food products at ten times their MRP, saying typing errors in the RTI reply caused the miscommunication.Three inspectors involved in making the RTI reply have been suspended.THE 'MISCOMMUNICATION'Responding to an RTI filed by an activist Ajay Bose, Central Railways had revealed that food items like 100 gram packets of Amul curd were purchased at Rs 14 crores for around 15,336 units (i.e. Rs 972 per unit). Similarly, refined oil had been purchased at Rs 253 a litre, and tur dal and moong dal were purchased for Rs 157 per kilogram -- which is several times higher than the existing market price. Cold drinks and water bottles were also purchased at prices twenty to thirty times higher than their actual price.But in its clarification, Central Railways denied any such purchases, saying there were typing errors in the RTI reply, which led to the miscommunication. Central Railways said that they purchased 58 tins of 15 ltrs each which amounted Rs 72,034. RTI reply suggests that 58 ltrs were purchased for Rs 72,034. Similarly, while Amul Curd purchase is shown as 15,336 cups of 100 gms for Rs 1,49,19,934.32, the actualr purchases were 15,336 cartons with 108 curd cups.NO STOCK MISMANAGEMENTOn the allegations of stock mismanagement, Central Railways said that the RTI reply suggested that the units offered were more than units purchased, which was again a mistake on the part of people who made the RTI reply. CR claimed that the stock available with the railways was not shown, leading to the confusion."Total stock available includes opening stock and stock purchased. But in the reply only stock purchased was shown which led to miscommunication," said Shailendra Kumar, CCM ,CR.The three inspectors who have been suspended are from the commercial department of CR and were involved in making the RTI reply. Accepting the negligence Kumar said, "This RTI reply had 1200 pages. While making these replies there was negligence. We have initiated action and will make sure that this is not repeated."CR also said that they had issued a clarification to the RTI activist and a revised reply was given to him the very next day.