Delhi Police to get 30 new Army dogs for security .
The police department is set to get a pack of canny canines from the Army to scent any trouble in the city.Delhi Police is expecting about 30 sniffer and explosive-detection dogs in a month from the Indian Army Veterinary Corps (IAVC).The four-legged recruits will help the department deal with security challenges in the Capital that frequently receives threats from terrorist groups and has a large VVIP population.Delhi Police's special cell on Monday reportedly wrote a letter to all concerned departments about two suspected terrorists looking to sneak into the city and stage attacks.LONGSTANDING DEMANDThe police force has had a longstanding demand to strengthen the number of sniffer and explosive-detection dogs, to up to 150, in its squad."Delhi Police currently has 60 dogs, comprising labradors and German shepherds with the former in majority. However, we are managing the security of the national Capital with the low strength and so we want more such dogs for foolproof security of the city. We have written to IAVC to provide trained dogs," said Rajan Bhagat, deputy commissioner of police, who's also in-charge of the dog squad.The officer pointed out that the city also hosts a large number of high-profile events every day. Such functions are on the radar of anti-national elements and so security of these venues is a top priority.The dogs could play a vital role in keeping these events safe. The dog squad, which started in 1960 with 10 dogs in Mandir Marg and Model Town areas in central and north Delhi, is now spread across a dozen Delhi Police districts and special units under the supervision of the crime branch.'DELHI POLICE DEMANDED 100 TRAINED DOGS'Elaborating about the dog squad, Bhagat told MAIL TODAY that the department has 60 dogs in two centres apart from three to four dogs in each districts. Since all 60 dogs are not fit for the job round the clock, Delhi Police want an adequate number of canines in the squad so that security personnel do not come across a shortage."Delhi Police recently demanded 100 trained dogs from IAVC. Now, it's up to the Indian Army to facilitate dogs to us depending on availability. We have recently built a multistorey building with capacity of 35 dogs at the Saket crime branch office situated on Mehrauli-Badarpur border. It is a first-of-its kind multi-storey building in India for trained dogs and an expected 30-odd dogs would get a home there," Bhagat said.Apart from Saket, 18 trained dogs are at the Model Town centre and 10 at the Chanakyapuri one.Indian Army has its own breeding facility, which provides trained dogs to all security agencies in the country including the National Security Guard (NSG). The force prefers to train labradors and German shepherds because of their natural ability to adapt to any schedule and atmospheric conditions.The training periods of dogs last from six to nine months depending on their physical and learning capabilities. After working with security agencies for eight years, the canines are retired and handed over to NGOs working in the veterinary field. However, Millennium city Gurugram only has one sniffer dog to take care of a city with population of more than 25 lakh. "We are basically using the sniffer dog for bomb detection while daily crimes are cracked manually," said a senior official, who wished to remain anonymous. 