Rajasthan introduces female patrol units to curb eve-teasing.
After Uttar Pradesh's anti-romeo squads, another BJP ruled state, Rajasthan, has launched mobile patrolling units to prevent molestation, harassment or eve teasing against women in the state. 26 women patrolling units, each comprising of two female constables, were flagged off from the Jaipur Commissionerate on Monday, for deployment in sensitive areas where instances of eve teasing, harassment have occurred in the past."52 girls are there in these first efforts of ours whom we have trained who will be operating in 26 teams. Will operate  in morning and evening. After talking to the DCPs, we people have identified those areas which are generally crowded and from where there is a possibility of complaints of eve teasing coming. Full command and control of these people will be from Abhay, our command and control centre... Additional DCP, Kamal Shekhawat, will be the overall incharge of this unit. These people will be deployed randomly as per requirement. These people have been given wireless sets which are connected with our PCR vans. If they feel there is any problem, then the local police and the PCR will also reach there and whatever legal action has to be taken, that legal action will be taken at that time against those people who are taking law in their hands. These kind of schools, malls, parks from where such kind of complaints come, these people will be deployed there," said Sanjay Agarwal, Police Commissioner, Jaipur.A total of 52 female police constables, in groups of two, will now operate from 6 am to 10 pm and will ensure no cases of eve teasing, of harassment occur under their watch. The patrolling units will operate in two shifts. "One thinking of ours was that any female will be little less hesitant in telling about her ordeal or pain to another female police personnel. That is why, we people have got these people deployed there. This is a new experiment for Jaipur that is beginning from today and as it progresses, we will try to improve it further. Its total command and control will be from Abhay command centre. Their deployment will be from the Commissionerate," Agarwal said.The team shall be headed by an Additional DCP rank officer.