Jawan's family abducted by liquor mafia in Haryana.
In yet another incident of brazen lawlessness in Haryana, liquor mafia reportedly threatened and abducted the family of an Army jawan in Sonepat. The incident came to light after a video showing the altercation between the two parties went viral.Family of Jogendra Giri, who is posted at Jammu border, was threatened after they opposed a liquor vendor in the village. The family have been protesting against the liquor sellers in the village. Sources said that along with Giri's mother, women from their entire village had joined the protests."If soldiers are serving the nation, who is responsible for the safety of their family members the administration needs to answer this," said Giri.The soldier said that since the protests his mother and brother are missing. He added that he lived under fear of being ill-treated. He said that his wife too was abused by the men from the liquor mafia."Some people barged into our residence and threatened us. They threatened me of dire consequences if we did not withdraw the complaint," said Giri's wife.She added there is no help from the authorities and that both her mother-in-law and brother-in-law have been missing for days. "We have absolutely no knowledge where they took our mother and brother. We have been repeatedly inquiring about them," she said.NO PROBE BY WOMEN'S COMMISSIONFollowing the incident, the jawan's wife approached the women's commission. However, no probe has been ordered by the women's commission.The soldier also approached the Sonepat Police, SP and MP. Distraught with the apathy of the authorities, the jawan has said that there was no assistance from both the police and the Haryana government."He didn't approach the government, he shared the issue on social media. There is no formal complaint yet. He is yet to name the accused who harassed his family. Our government ensures justice for them," said Krishan Dhal from the Haryana government.When asked about the police negligence, Dhal said that he will speak once a formal complaint is lodged and added that the government will look into it. "I don't know which police station he approached. It is time for online FIR registration. This video is very old. However, we assure that if proven we will suspend the police personnel who refused to take the jawan's complaint," said Dhal.He added that the government will take stern action against encroachments and violations by liquor mafia.After the jawan's video went viral, Army ordered an inquiry into the case."We protect motherland, but are unable to protect our own mother," soldier reportedly told army sources.Also Read:Jaipur: Angered over sale of illicit liquor, locals hurl alcohol bottles on streets Madhya Pradesh: 70 villages impose self prohibition against sale of liquor in state 