Saw Indrani Mukerjea kill Sheena Bora: Indrani's driver.
Reiterating his earlier stand, Shyamwar Rai, the driver who turned approver in the Sheena Bora murder case, told court on Friday that Indrani Mukerjea wanted to kill both Sheena and Mikhail. Bora was allegedly killed in 2012, but the case came to light in 2015, after Rai?s arrest. Rai is the crucial link in the case which led to the arrest of Indrani Mukerjea, her ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna for the murder of Sheena.Rai has given the police a detailed account of how Indrani, along with Khanna conspired to eliminate Sheena, and how the three of them executed the plot. In his confession, Rai said Indrani contacted him towards the end of March 2012, through her personal assistant Kajal Sharma. He said Indrani had spoken to him on Skype and revealed her plans to eliminate her two children ? Sheena and Mikhail and asked for his help.He said Indrani wanted to kill both of them because they were maligning her image in society and threatened to expose the truth that she was their mother and not their sister as she had been claiming. Rai also said Indrani mentioned to him that there are property issues as well and she was against her stepson?s Rahul?s relationship with Sheena.Read: I helped kill Sheena Bora, confesses Indrani?s driver Shyamwar RaiIn one of the statements recorded on September 6, 2015, Rai said on the evening of April 24 2012 ? the day of the murder ? at around 4pm, Indrani came down from her flat and asked him to take her to Bandra.?In the car, she told me Sheena had demanded a three-bedroom-hall-kitchen in Pali Hill, a car and a diamond ring from Moti Mahal. Indrani said she had promised to gift Sheena the ring on that day. It was only because of this Sheena agreed to meet her, Indrani told me,? reads the statement of Rai.Rai has in his confession statement given before the magistrate court has stated detailed account of how they first picked up Sheena and took her to a remote place in Bandra where the three of them strangulated her.Rai?s statement also described how furious Indrani was with Sheena. He said that immediately after the murder, Indrani asked him to drive towards Taj Lands End, a hotel.?Indrani madam mujhe boli hotel Taj Lands le lo aur mujhe boli thi 3 BHK flat Sheena ko mil gaya. Indrani Madam Sheena ke muh ke upar baith gaye (Indrani madam asked me to drive towards Taj Lands End. She sat on Sheena?s face and then said Sheena has got her 3BHK flat),? he has said in the confession.Read: Shyamwar Rai can turn approver in Sheena Bora case: CBIThe driver then said that after the murder, Indrani went to Taj Lands End, while Khanna left them soon after the murder. He said that the three of them later met in Indrani?s house in Marlow building. They kept Sheena?s body in a bag and kept the bag in the garage.Rai said that when he went to Indrani?s house along with Khanna, Indrani and Mikhail were drinking.?Madam muze boli, Mikhail kitna daru pita hai, abhi tak behosh nahi hua. Fir, Khanna bola, Mikhail ko badme dekhte hai. Do do bodies alag alag jagah pe kaise leke jayenge? (Madam told me, how much does Mikhail drink, he still hasn?t lost his consciousness. Then Khanna said, we will see Mikhail later. How will we carry two bodies at the same time)?? said the confession.Rai said the next morning, the three of them ? he, Indrani and Khanna - left to dispose of her body and burn it in a forested area in Gagode village of Raigad district on April 24, 2012.