Delhi cops donate blood to alleged burglar who fired at them.
A suspected burglar who was shot in an encounter by two policemen succumbed to his injuries at the Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini, North Delhi, early on Thursday.The policemen  constable Ashok Kumar and assistant sub-inspector Ramashray Singh  had earlier admitted the accused to the hospital and donated blood in an attempt to save his life.Joint commissioner of police (northern range) Rajesh Khurana confirmed to HT that the accused, 24-year-old Nitin, died around 1.30 am.Nitin suffered five bullet injuries after an alleged burglary attempt at a Rohini apartment went horribly wrong on Wednesday morning. Police said they were forced to retaliate after the accused and an accomplice, Salman, allegedly opened fire at them.Though Supreme Court guidelines stipulate that an FIR must be registered in an encounter death, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Rishi Pal said no fresh case would be filed in this connection.The accused fired first. The policemen retaliated in self-defence. We registered a case against the accused, but none will be registered against the policemen, he added.The police officer said the National Human Rights Commission would be informed about the death, and all guidelines adhered to. Though police informed Nitins father about the encounter on Wednesday, nobody from his family has come forward to take his body until now.According to Pal, Nitin and Salman were allegedly trying to scale the walls of the Ahinsa Vihar apartment in Rohini Sector 9 around 4 am when some residents spotted them. They alerted the police, after which a team of three policemen was rushed to the spot.When the two suspects landed on the road outside, they found themselves face-to-face with the policemen. That was when they began firing at us. As both assistant sub-inspector Ramashray Singh and I were armed with pistols, we fired in retaliation, said constable Kumar.While Nitin was hit in his arms, leg and lower back, Salman managed to escape in the dark.The injured burglar underwent a surgery at the hospital, but needed three-four units of blood. Two of the three policemen involved in the encounter stepped forward to help.Shooting at the criminal was my professional duty. Now I am performing my humanitarian duty, Kumar had told HT while donating blood.