Govt conducting selective raids against AIADMK: Stalin.
Days after targeting the BJP-led central government for enforcing Hindi on non-speakers, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) working president and treasurer MK Stalin today fired yet another salvo. In video shared on his twitter page, Stalin urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to end the selective use of agencies like IT department, enforcement directorate and CBI for political benefits.He also accused the Centre of using these agencies to feed their political ambitions. In the 2-minute video, Stalin spoke about the hardships faced by farmers in the wake of drought. "Farmers are committing suicide in Tamil Nadu. The entire Cauvery delta is suffering from drought and the Cauvery management Board has not yet been formed," said Stalin. He further spoke about compulsory 'NEET' exams on how it is dismantling the aspirations of students aiming to become medical professionals. Talking about the drought in the state, Stalin said that people were suffering because of the lack of relief from the Union Government. He went on to slam the Modi government calling it apathetic towards the demands of the farmers who are protesting against the hydrocarbon project.THE PARALYZED STATEIn his video address, Stalin said that the Tamil Nadu government has been in a state of paralysis ever since J Jayalalithaa was hospitalised on September 22 last year. "The union government does not seem the least bit concerned about that. It is now crystal clear that it is the hand of the BJP, which is in control of the central government, which is directing this blindingly obvious one-sided application of 'selective raids' and 'selective arrests' against one faction of the AIADMK, while turning a blind eye and allowing strong incrimination evidence against the other faction of the AIADMK to gather dust,"а said Stalin.The DMK working president then accused BJP-led Centre of resorting to tactics to gain foothold in Tamil Nadu. He added that BJP was raiding sitting Tamil Nadu ministers and intimidating IAS officers.He went on to say that the BJP government did not show any urgency to address the teeming issues like water disputes with neighbouring states or attacks on Tamil Nadu fishermen. "The BJP government has not invested even one per cent on trying to solve the real problems facing the people of Tamil Nadu," said the DMK treasurer. MK Stalin furthermore demanded answers from the BJP government on its apathetic view towards Tamil Nadu. аIn the end, he urged the prime minister to ensure that Tamil Nadu has a legitimate and stable government that functions with full powers as every state government is enshrined with the constitution.родрооро┐ро┤ро? ро?ро░ро?рп? роорп?ро?ро?рп?ро? роиро┐ройрп?ро?рп?ро?рп?роорп? роородрп?родро┐роп ро?ро░ро?ро┐ройрп? ро?родро┐ро?ро╛ро░ роорп?ро▒ро▓рп?ро?ро│рп?! pic.twitter.com/K3PGcc8GfvWith inputs from Pramod Madhav Also read:BJP govt destroying nation's unity by imposing Hindi on non-speakers, says MK StalinTamil Nadu bandh: Anti-social elements may instigate violence, says DMK's Stalin