My feet were bleeding while shooting Chikni Chameli: Katrina.
Katrina Kaif graced Guwahati with her presence at Mind Rocks Guwahati 2017. Wearing a red suit, she entered the stage with Sheila Ki Jawaani playing out loud on the speakers. The crowd cheered, whistled and whooted as she sat down to speak about her views on stardom and how it takes true grit to be a superstar.Turns out it was Katrina Kaif's first time in Assam. When Katrina was asked how she is getting better with age, she said, "Got to live up to the name. Jawaani hai toh you got to keep doing it."Katrina said that even though a lot of people tell her that she looks like her mother, as a child, she looked like her father. She added that after coming to India, she wanted to identify with her ethnic heritage and it was here that she found her sense of belonging.Katrina Kaif also spoke about how different her Tees Maar Khan director Farah Khan and her Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara director Zoya Akhtar were. She said that while Farah Khan is a Manmohan Desai fan and works in the commercial space, Zoya Akhtar's filmmaking was understated. "Zindagi (Na Milegi Dobara) was real. Zoya wanted me to be as close to who I was in real life. It was an incredibly fun experience."She mentioned how she was just recovering from an injury during the shoot of the Bang Bang title track and how her pain did not allow her to dance as well as she wanted to alongside Hrithik Roshan. A funny incident she recalled was when Sanjay Dutt could not look Katrina Kaif in the eye as she danced in front of Sanju baba during the shoot of Chikni Chameli in the 2012 film Agneepath. Katrina added that he has known her since she was 18 years old and therefore, being the conservative man that Sanjay Dutt was, his discomfort was understandable. Katrina also added that during the 5th or 6th day of the Chikni Chameli shoot, her feet began to bleed as she was dancing on bare stones.On the most talented actors right now:Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt. Loved Varun Dhawan in Badrinath Ki Dulhania.On Salman Khan:He is a strong man. He will always set an example for people who look up to him. It is difficult to guess what his thinks. His strength and silence are admirable qualities. He is an incredible person.On Aamir Khan:Aamir Khan has a different approach to working. His approach is very meticulous. He puts in a lot of physical work and mental preparation. No one puts that kind of dedication to work.On Shah Rukh Khan:Shah Rukh Khan is a very knowledgeable person. He speaks like a poet and he has got an energy which never stops.