Delhi Metro says commuters used open Wi-Fi to play porn clip.
The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has submitted the probe report of the April 9 porn clip incident to the police, identifying three young men as suspects. The police are now tracing the movement of these men by checking footage of the stations where they could have boarded the train.The process, however, will take time as faces of these men are not visible in the CCTV but through appearance and clothes, police is trying to identify them from the cameras installed at other locations.Three young men are seen using their phones as remote and watching the screen. DMRC has told us that Wi-Fi was used to play porn from the phone by one of these passengers. One of them is also seen recording the entire incident. We are trying to identify them through the colour of their shirt and trousers. Apart from the cameras at entry points, the footage of platform cameras are also being checked, said a Delhi Police official, who is part of the investigation. On April 9, a pornographic clip played on one of the LED screens at the busy Rajiv Chowk station.The DMRC has submitted the investigation/facts along with CCTV footage of the incident involving a porn clip played on LED TV at Rajiv Chowk station, to Delhi Metro Rail Police for further investigation into the matter, said a DMRC spokesperson. Preliminary investigation revealed that the incident took place around 5pm on April 9. Following the incident, which left the DMRC red-faced, it has also issued strict guidelines to the contractors, who are handling electronic systems, such as LED screens at stations.These screens are used for advertisements and information dissemination.While there is no penalty in the Delhi Metros rulebook for this particular offence, the DMRC is now considering a specific penalty. For this case, the Delhi Police are working closely with us. Once the culprits are caught, we will impose a penalty and hand them over to the police, an official said.The LED TV system, where the porn clip played on for at least 10 minutes on April 9, had just been commissioned and its Wi-Fi port was accessible. The video continued for several minutes and was stopped only after some commuters brought it to the attention of DMRC officials at the station. The incident was recorded by several commuters on their mobile phones and has been shared multiple times on various social media platforms. Police said that they are also tracking the social media to check, who uploaded the video first. Cyber experts are helping us to trace the user, who first uploaded the video, the official added.A similar incident had been reported from Wayanad district in Kerala in 2015. Hundreds of passengers waiting at a bus stand in Kalpetta then had seen a porn video playing on a television installed to broadcast advertisements.A witness had later shared the video of the spot on social media. The user reported that the clip had played for 30 minutes. Some passengers then had tried covering the TV set with a cloth while women and children chose to walk away from the spot. 