Twitter reacts to Shashi Tharoor's 'snollygoster' tweet.
After farrago and webaqoof, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who is known for his impressive vocabulary, has taken to Twitter to define another difficult word snollygoster.?Word of the day! Definition of *snollygoster*. US dialect: a shrewd, unprincipled politician. First Known Use: 1845. Most recent use: 26/7/17,? the Congress MP tweeted on Thursday.Word of the day!Definition of *snollygoster*US dialect: a shrewd, unprincipled politicianFirst Known Use: 1845Most recent use: 26/7/17? Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) July 27, 2017The tweet immediately caught the attention of social media users and was retweeted more than 1100 times.Some were all praises for his linguistic skills, others thought the word was intended as a jibe at Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. The Janata Dal(United) chief broke away from the Mahagathbandhan or the grand alliance with Rashtriya Janata Dal and Congress and returned to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) despite being foes for a long time. Kumar?s move came after RJD chief Lalu Prasad rejected the demand for his son and deputy chief minister Tejashwi?s resignation over alleged railway hotel tender scam. Just retweeting and I feel like I've earned my Wren N Martin Medal.? BeeGorgeous (@BeeGorgeous3) July 27, 2017Google is busy searching the meaning of 'Snollygoster' ???? Kabir Khan (@Kabir_TheOne) July 27, 2017Following you will help me crack CAT with 100 percentile in English. pic.twitter.com/uOoFpwAxke? just_another_indian (@justanotherind3) July 27, 2017Nitish a Snollygoster is an understatement. He is actively anti-principle, someone for whom principles are seen as a liability. pic.twitter.com/VrAnufYMY0? INC_Tharoorian (@Tharoorian_INC) July 27, 2017There can not be snollygoster more apt for any other person than Nitish Kumar.We are spellbound with your vocabulbary.And it's apt use.? Amit Ghosh (@amitghoshspeaks) July 27, 2017Twitter users first got a taste of Tharoor?s linguistic prowess when he used an eloquent tweet to slam TV journalist Arnab Goswami?s reporting on his wife Sunanda Pushkar?s death.?Exasperating farrago of distortions, misrepresentations and outright lies being broadcast by an unprincipled showman masquerading as a journalist,? he posted in May this year.Exasperating farrago of distortions, misrepresentations&outright lies being broadcast by an unprincipled showman masquerading as a journalst? Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) May 8, 2017The effect of his tweet was such that it spiked the Google search results for the word farrago.Earlier, he gave another sample of his wordplay with the word ?webaqoof?, which was aimed at people who believe everything on the internet without fact-checking.New Hinglish 21st century dictionary:*Webaqoof*: "one who believes every claim or allegation on the internet & social media must be true"? Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) July 25, 2017