Filmmaker K Viswanath named Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner.
Renowned filmmaker and actor Kasinathuni Viswanath is going to be conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award for the year 2016. I and B (Information and Broadcasting) Minister M Venkaiah Naidu today approved the recommendation of the Dadasaheb Phalke Award committee. The award is conferred by the Government of India for outstanding contribution to the growth and development of Indian cinema. The award consists of a Swarn Kamal (Golden Lotus), a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh and a shawl. The award shall be conferred by the President of India at a function on May 3 at Vigyan Bhawan.A presenter of classical and traditional art, music and dance, K Viswanath has been a guiding force in the Indian film industry. As a director he has made fifty films since 1965 known for their strong content, endearing narrative, honest handling and cultural authenticity. His films on a wide range of social and human issues had great appeal to the masses.K Viswanath was born in February 1930 at Gudivadain Andhra Pradesh. An ardent art lover, he made a series of films based on varied themes of art, music and dance. His films empathised with courage and frailty, aspirations and convictions, perseverance and distractions, social demands and individual struggle and at the core, believed in the goodness of the human spirit.His contributions have received recognition in the form of the Padmashri Award in 1992 by the Government of India for his contribution to filmmaking. He has also been awarded 5 National Awards, 20 Nandi Awards (awarded by the State Government of Andhra Pradesh), 10 Filmfare Awards including Lifetime Achievement Award. His National Award-winning film Swati Mutyam was India's official entry to the 59th Academy Awards in the Best Foreign Film category.The stories that Shri K Viswanath told through his films were seemingly simple. They provided an uncomplicated, direct and pleasant cinematic experience to the audience. At the same time, they lend themselves to a nuanced and layered interpretation leading many to watch them again and again and come back and discover a new hitherto unseen aspect or a have deeper understanding and realization.One of his most memorable films, Sirivennela was a sensitive story of a blind flutist and a mute painter who fall in love with each other over the love of music and their individual setbacks. It helped in changing the viewers' perception of disability, to a large extent.  The musical compositions of this film are still fresh and soothing to the ears.