Bajrang Dal attacks police station to rescue 5 detained men.
The Sadar Bazar police station in Fatehpur Sikri of Agra came under attack by Bajrang Dal activists yesterday as they attempted to rescue five of their 'co-workers'.The attackers set a vehicle ablaze during the attack on the police station. One policeman was injured in the clashes with the agitators.The detained persons were said to be Bajrang Dal activists, who were taken into custody following a clashes with police earlier in the day at Fatehpur Sikri police station. The agitators demanded that a case registered against the activists of the Bajrang Dal and VHP in an assault case be withdrawn. They also sought action against some policemen.The protesters were led by BJP Fatehpur Sikri MLA Udaybhan Singh. However, police said that the attack by the Bajrang Dal activists took place after the legislator left the spot.Fourteen persons associated with different right-wing outfits have been arrested in connection with violence."We have arrested 14 persons in connection with the violence yesterday," said DIG Mahesh Mishra. HOW IT BEGANIt all started on Saturday morning when nine men, reportedly belonging to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal, were booked on the charges of beating up men from minority community. The suspects were detained by police. But, as the news spread activists of Bajrang Dal and VHP reached the Fatehpur Sikri police station, where they, according to local reports, had a heated exchange with the Circle Officer Ravikant Parashar.As tempers flew, VHP leader Jagmohan Chahar reportedly slapped the CO. The police responded with lathicharge causing minor stampede.Later, a mob gheraoed the Fatehpur Sikri police station and pelted stones at it. Local reports say that police responded in the same kind. It went like this for about half-an-hour. People on both sides received injuries.Some more people - five to six - were taken into custody. Five of the detained men were taken to Sadar Bazar police station, where the Bajrang Dal activists launched an attack late night.BUILD UP AT SADAR BAZAR POLICE STATIONAfter the detained persons were taken to Sadar Bazar police station, several local leaders including BJP MLA Udaybhan Singh reached there and staged protest demanding their release. The police did not agree to their demands leading to further clashes.The agitators are said to have misbehaved with police officials at the Sadar Bazar police station. Meanwhile, supporters kept pouring in at the police station.As the mob kept gathering at the Sadar Bazar police station, the police resorted to another round of lathicharge, which fueled the protest even further. The protesters turned violent at Sadar Bazar police station and pelted stones at the policemen.Reports said that a vehicle was set ablaze and service revolver of a policeman was also snatched. The vehicle and service revolver belonged to the same policeman, who is said to have received injuries. EFFORTS TO PACIFY MOB FAILEDSeveral senior officials of Agra reached Sadar Bazar police station late night. They tried to bring normalcy but talks with the agitators did not yield results as they insisted on releasing the VHP and Bajrang Dal activists. Police rejected their demands.Among the detained persons is VHP leaer Jagmohan Chahar, who had reportedly slapped a police officer during the day.A police official was quoted as saying in some reports that the men, who attacked the Sadar Bazar police station, tried to break the lock-up, where detainees were kept. 