Video shows IAF officer being thrashed by mob; three held.
Delhi Police have arrested three people in respect to a video going viral on social media in which an Air Force Officer can be seen getting thrashed in full public view. The officer was allegedly assaulted and robbed by a group of men after his motorcycle brushed past their car in southeast Delhi's Sangam Vihar area, police said today. The officer was accosted and thrashed in the middle of the road, blocking the traffic. Sujay Kr Sikandar, a corporal posted at Tughlakabad told police that on April 20, his motorcycle had brushed past a Swift car. After that the vehicle overtook and stopped him on the Mehrauli-Badarpur Road near Batra Hospital. Two persons came out of the car and started beating him and his colleague, he told police. He added that in the meantime, another car also pulled up and its driver got into a argument over the road getting blocked. The three of them then dragged him and robbed his ID card as well as the registration certificate of his motorcycle, police said.One of the accused works as a milk supplier in Malviya Nagar. The others work as a storekeeper at a hotel in Mehrauli and as a bouncer at a club in Vasant Vihar. The robbed items have been recovered and the two cars have been seized. Several Twitter users posted the video, tagged the IAF's official account, and called for strict action. One man even tweeted the clip to the accounts run by the offices of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh.Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrashekhar on Friday tweeted the video to Delhi's Commissioner of Police Amulya Patnaik, and asked him to bring the culprits to book. He requested to ensure that the matter is investigated and the guys are booked. He even requested the general public to come forward and help with any details possible.The Air Force hasn't yet commented on the video, which has surfaced just days after CRPF jawans returning from a polling station in Srinagar's Budgam were assaulted by civilians. That attack, which failed to provoke the jawans, sparked outrage across the nation.PTI Inputs