I am open to doing a Bollywood film: Baahubali actor Prabhas.
With the release of Baahubali 2: The Conclusion a week away, Prabhas, 37, talks about the making of the Baahubali phenomenon, what his superhero status means to him and life after Baahubali exclusively to India Today.What was it like to play two different characters - Mahendra Baahubali and Amarendra Baahubali - both iconic and superheroes but with distinctly different personalitiesWhen you look at the characters of Amarendra Baahubali and his son Mahendra Baahubali or Shiva, the biggest differentiator was their backgrounds. Amarendra grew up as a prince and Mahendra Baahubali grew up amidst a tribe as Shiva.He is destined for greatness, he's as strong as his father and as able a fighter too but doesn't know where he needs to go or what he needs to do. He doesn't know that his mother and his kingdom are waiting for him. He is actually pursuing a girl who he is mesmerised with but stumbles upon a greater purpose in the process. He is a passionate and rugged sort of a guy who can be rather blunt sometimes but that's just how he is designed. He's not rude or crude, just a bit different.Amarendra, on the other hand, was meant to be the king of the biggest kingdom ever - Mahishmati. He is more self-aware and has also grown up knowing his life purpose all along. Ultimately, they are both for the people. Keeping these distinctions clear and imbibing their individuality helped me understand these characters better.Was it a risk to dedicate four and a half years to this projectIt is an extraordinary script and as a principal actor I had to do justice to it. I knew that an epic film of this proportion would take this much time to be made. More than physical strength or action-training, a certain mental strength was needed to give unfocused time to a great director (S S Rajamouli). Luckily, I know him for 12 years and know his passion for his work. It wasn't easy, but it had to be done. Every three or four months, Rajamouli used to show us the completed visuals or share an improvisation in the script. It was intriguing and insightful and kept us enthused all through.Would you say that your performance is better in part twoYes. Part one focused more on introducing the characters, while part two is the resolution and offered greater scope for performance as well.Do you relate to the characters you played in BaahubaliI don't personally relate to any character. It is a film after all. My character kills a lot of people in the film, that doesn't mean that I will get inspired by him and start killing people. It's all about how hard I can work to step into the character. From my point of view, it's only about how best I can play that character.What would you do to get into the Baahubali mindset before getting on to the setsOnce I'm told about the character, I can't stop thinking about it. Baahubali has strong arms and unbending courage; he is detached from luxury and is beyond political power. A balanced compassionate person, he doesn't react much or show too much emotion. All the intensity in him reflects in his eyes. That is what I would try to bring into my own eyes before getting on to the set. What was your biggest challenge with BaahubaliMore than a challenge, it was an endeavour to make Rajamouli happy. He is the most mad and passionate man I know. I just went into this project with the attitude that I would do my best; even if part one didn't work, I would still do part two with the same dedication. What we believe in, we must do 100 per cent. It can't be a case of 50, 40, 30 or even 99 per cent. Any special moments you often recall from the shooting daysThere are so many, I can't pick one. I was awestruck when I saw the waterfall for the first time. I feel quite nostalgic about that.You continued with your archery training even after the shoot was overYes, I enjoyed learning archery and whenever I can, I still practice. I'm fascinated by it.On the intriguing question of why did Katappa kill BaahubaliWe never imagined that it would turn into a legendary question. Even Rajamouli didn't think that it would. People across the nation speculating on theories and the jokes doing the rounds on social media were most amusing. It was the love of the audience in their own way, I would say.Back in real life, do you sometimes approach a problem or situation asking yourself how Baahubali would have approached the same situationI never thought of it, but if Baahubali were to approach a situation or problem, he would just smile it off. (Smiles)Who were your childhood superheroesSuperman, Spider-Man, Batman, the usual. I never thought that one day I will be a superhero, be part of a franchise and appear in comics. Not even in my wildest dreams I thought I would be part of a cult film and be remembered. I always dreamed big as an actor but the way things turned out, I never imagined it would be this big.There are perhaps children who look up to you today as a superhero just as you did while you were young.Well, I feel lucky for that. It wasn't just Baahubali, but Bhallaladeva, Sivagami, Kattappa, all have become iconic characters and will be remembered.What are your aspirations for the futureI don't know. I will try to do something better with my performance. It can't get better than Baahubali as a film; that was something magical and once in a lifetime. I'm open to Bollywood if I'm offered a project that I can resonate with.Most often you keep a low profile, and are seen as shy and reclusive. What do you have to sayI come from a large family of several cousins on both sides. When all of us get together, the noise and drama are nothing short of a marriage function. Perhaps I was always so content and comfortable with my extended family that I didn't quite go out and make too many friends. I didn't grow up into too much of an outgoing person. Some people from big families turn out like that, I guess.