Promotional pic depicting kidnapped actress slammed online.
As a part of the film promotion, a picture of Varalaxmi Sarathkumar tied on a bed went viral on the internet with the hashtag Varalaxmi Got Kidnapped. However, the actor was quick enough to clarify that it was for her upcoming film.I'm absolutely fine.. thank u for ur concern..it's a part of our movie promotion.. announcement at 6pm..!!PRO Nikkil Murugan took to Twitter to share the controversial picture.#VaralaxmiGotKidnappedpic.twitter.com/5TgSFlhLjmThough the picture was used as a gimmick to attract audience, Twitterati have slammed the actor for her 'promotional' strategy.#VaralaxmiGotKidnapped - This shows how NOBODY cares if someone got kidnapped. They will make memes and abuse the victim for itApril 18, 2017How is #VaralaxmiGotKidnapped 'sweet'? It's atrocious. You can't take followers' concerns 4 granted. I'm sorry, I'm boycotting this movie. https://t.co/9fi73sJsVPApril 18, 2017Thu ð??¦ #VaralaxmiGotKidnappedpic.twitter.com/6HjwuREtFRApril 18, 2017Varu Sarathkumar getting kidnapped - this will go down as one of the worst promotional tactics ever for a film. Dismal.April 18, 2017 So much for all the female empowerment talks. Tacky promotions... unless it actually happened April 18, 2017So now they have used actress kidnapped as a promotion, will they scream rape next? #thoo#kollywoodApril 18, 2017 Nikkil later clarified that Varalaxmi was not aware of this.Sweet surprise to @varusarath for her movie promotions...she wasn't aware of this..All is well and always well for @varusarathVaralaxmi is in New Delhi to represent her Save Shakti campaign to the Law minister. I wasn't aware of this promotion as I'm in delhi representing my Save shakti petition to the Law ministry..Sorry for the trouble..!!Earlier to this, Varalaxmi made headlines when she exposed the ugly reality of casting couch in February. In fact, her Save Shakti campaign aims to protect female artists in the entertainment industry.Varalaxmi is the daughter of noted Tamil actor Sarathkumar. She made her acting debut in Poda Podi (2012) and shot to fame after her stellar performance in Bala's Tharai Thappattai (2016). Last seen in megastar Mammootty's Kasaba, Varalaxmi is playing a pivotal role in the Tamil film Vikram Vedha, which also stars Madhavan and Vijay Sethupathi in the lead.ALSO READ: Baahubali 2 | An emotional SS Rajamouli bids farewell to team on Twitter