Remove Amma betrayer Sasikala from AIADMK: Panneerselvam.
Amid talks of merger between the two warring factions of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's (AIADMK), former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister O Panneerselvam has made it clear that he would settle for nothing less than ouster of VK Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dinakaran from the party. Speaking to reporters in Chennai, Panneerselvam played the 'Amma' card and said it was important that members of the Mannargudi family be evicted if the AIADMK has to survive.Panneerselvam reiterated his demand for a probe into J Jayalalithaa's death and said details regarding her treatment should be made public."Sasikala has betrayed Amma. The treatment and medicines given to Amma should be made   public. A thorough investigation must be done into Jayalalithaa's death," Panneerselvam said."We have to follow the path which Amma (Jayalalithaa) laid out for us. The way Sasikala brought back Dinakaran into the party and her own elevation as AIADMK general secretary...everything was unconstitutional," Panneerselvam, who revolted against Sasikala in February after stepping down from the CM's chair, said. "That family (Mannargudi family) was not supposed to be in the party. Amma never wanted them in the party, they have betrayed her. Betrayers will have to go," Panneerselvam added.REVOLT IN EPS CAMPOn the other hand, the revolt inside the EPS (CM Edappadi Palaniswami) camp has spiralled out of control with senior ministers seeking deputy general secretary TTV Dinakaran and interim general secretary Sasikala Natarajan's removal. Sources said Dinakaran has also lost support of influential party leaders Jayakumar, SP Velumani, Thangamani and Vaithyalingam - who helped him enter AIADMK again after Jayalalithaa's death. The four leaders are apprehensive of their names being associated with health minister Vijaybhaskar who was raided by the Income Tax department earlier this month. "They've completely surrendered to the Center as they are trapped now. If TTV quits his position within the party, they are likely to be saved," claimed a party leader. PANNEERSELVAM AS CM, EPS AS DEPUTY CM?As per negotiations tabled, Cabinet is ready to accept Panneerselvam as chief minister if Palaniswami is made his deputy. Palaniswami had reportedly asked for the role of general secretary as well. Madhusudhanan will remain as the presidium chairman.Surprisingly, a plan has also been formulated to bring Sasikala out of prison in 4 months if ahe quits the general secretary post Dinakaran is to not involve himself into party decisions but can be a party worker. Members of EPS camp led by education minister Sengottaiyan is likely to meet Panneerselvam tonight and will try and barter the deal. Dinakarana having lost the support of his close aides is ready to resort to any move to save himself.WATCH: Exclusive: No split within AIADMK, only difference of opinion, says ThambiduraiALSO READ: Tamil Nadu: AIADMK factions meet for merger talks. Sasikala, nephew Dinakaran to be kicked out?Have Panneerselvam and Sasikala patched up? Decision on merger of AIADMK factions likely today