Snapchat iOS app rating drops to 1-star on poor India remark.
A day after Snapchat CEO faced the ire of Indian twitterati who lambasted him for his 'India is too poor' comment, the ratings of the application have plummeted.  According to the application info on App Store, the "Customer Ratings" of the current version of the app was "single star" (based on 6,099 ratings) and all versions rating was "one and half star" (based on 9,527 ratings) as on Sunday morning, reported IANS.This comes after Snapchat's ex-employee Anthony Pompliano was quoted by a website Variety as saying that company CEO Evan Spiegel in September 2015 told him that "the app is only for rich people. I don't want to expand into poor countries like India and Spain".Indians did not take the comment lightly and took to social media to lash out at the statement from the CEO. Some users wrote, "Poor India & Spain need better than Snapchat", "Good bye, My Snapchat Account and Snap Inc. You'll be product of gone by era and derision", and "Poor Evan Spiegel".Consequently, the rating of the popular app dropped to a 'single star' from an apparent 'five star' on the App Store. The rating for the app on Android Play Store was "four star" (based on 11,932,996 ratings).However, on Sunday, Snapchat appeared to have responded to the claim. The Hindustan Times quoted the company as saying, "This is ridiculous. Obviously Snapchat is for everyone! It's available worldwide to download for free."TWITTER RAGESThe app was also trolled on Twitter. #boycottsnapchat became the most trending hashtag on Twitter overnight."I haven't seen any Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians etc Tweets yet. Thanks @Snapchat for Uniting us," a user tweeted."I was addicted to @Snapchat but I love my country more than this app. Let's see how you earn without Indians. @evanspiegel #boycottsnapchat," another user wrote on twitter.Some users even flagged the app for hateful content and left a message, "Dear @snapchatsupport, flagged you for hateful content. #boycottsnapchat".INSTAGRAM SURPASSES SNAPCHATAccording to a report in Forbes on Thursday, Facebook's photo-sharing app Instagram surpassed Snapchat in daily active users of "Stories" feature, though the format was first launched by Snapchat in 2013.Instagram's "Stories" feature was now used by more than 200 million people every day -- an increase of 50 million since January.On the other hand, Snapchat who launched the "Stories" format in October 2013, had 161 million daily active users in February."Stories" feature is an ephemeral chain of photo and video clips with filters and special effects. More recently, Facebook and WhatsApp also introduced the feature, imitating Snapchat.Snapchat has more than four million users in India.(With inputs from IANS)Also Read:#BoycottSnapchat: Twitter rages after Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegal's apparent 'India is too poor' comment