Suhana, Aryan aren't joining films as actors right now: SRK.
Shah Rukh Khan, as we all know, is a fantastic speaker and an erudite writer. So it would not be hard to believe that the actor has been working on an autobiography for quite some time. In an exclusive interview with India Today's Koel Purie, Shah Rukh Khan spoke about his still-in-progress book, dreams, acting and his children, AbRam, Suhana and Aryan.When asked why his book, which SRK once called '20 Years of a Decade' is still not out in stores yet, Shah Rukh said, "I am still writing it. I have more memories than most of the people so it's taking a longer time."On keeping your dreams alive in the midst of outstanding success, SRK said, "I think even with success, the only way to keep your dream alive is to find pleasure in small things, the littlest of things. If you look after the big things, you are only managing success."An example of finding pleasure in small things, according to Shah Rukh Khan was when the actor made a house out of Lego with his son AbRam.On the topic of his daughter Suhana joining Bollywood as an actor, Shah Rukh said, "You need to be minimal qualification of a graduate before you even think of coming and learning any way. Go out, do some theatre, finish your schooling, finish your college, then study for a couple of years about acting. (sic)""If she gets into the field that I already am in, somewhere, even without wanting, even though I would like to avoid it, the life lessons will permeate on to her through me. And I've already done it. Why would you want to learn from something that has been seen, I've been there, done that; find something new, go beyond. I'm not saying go beyond me and learn and come back and all only, I don't think she needs this kind of a shadow over her. So go out. (sic)" Shah Rukh added."When you go to a school, when you go to a college; failure, and passing, bad treatment, good treatment, happy days, bad days, sad days that happen in a school and college are, I think, really important life lessons. But bringing them on a set, and saying, 'this is Shah Rukh Khan's daughter', as a matter of fact will give them less life lessons because they will treat her like a star's daughter. That's not cool. I think she should just be treated normally in school, college, by teachers. I don't want her to go out there and prove her worth as a great actor to someone. I think she's a great actor. She really likes it. If the passion is retained in the next two/three years, come and act. But at this point, no, none of them are thinking of coming and joining films as actors. AbRam is already acting," Shah Rukh Khan continued.