'What do I call you? God?' Pak woman to Swaraj after visa.
External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on Thursday directed the Indian High Commission in Islamabad to issue a visa to a Pakistani national for medical treatment in India. Swaraj's direction to India's High Commissioner in Pakistan Gautam Bambawale came after a woman -- Hijaab Asif -- sought the external affairs minister's urgent intervention. Touched by Swaraj's prompt response, Asif praised Swaraj and even said that Pakistan would have changed had she been the prime minister of her country. Minutes after Swaraj's tweet to Bambawale, the Indian mission tweeted that it was in touch with the applicant. "Ma'am, we are in touch with the applicant. Rest assured we will follow it up," the Indian High Commission said in a tweet. 'HE SAID IT'S ALL UP TO YOU' Responding to Asif's plea, Swaraj also wondered whether Pakistan Prime Minister's Foreign Affairs Advisor Satraj Aziz had refused to issue a recommendation letter for the issuance of a visa by India to the patent. The External Affairs minister had a few weeks back said that Pakistani nationals seeking visas for medical treatment in India must accompany their visa applications with a recommendation letter by Aziz. "Dear maam, spoke to DHC (Deputy High Commissioner) in Islamabad, told the patients current condition and he said it's all up to you. If you allow," Asif had tweeted earlier. The patient is suffering from serious liver ailment and needs urgent treatment in India, she said. 'CANNOT STOP PRAISING YOU'After Swaraj's direction to grant a visa to the patient, Asif was effusive in her praise of the external affairs minister. "@SushmaSwaraj What do I call you? Superwoman? God? No words to describe your generosity! Love you maam. Cannot stop praising you in tears!!!," she said. In another tweet, she said "my heart belongs and beats for you", adding that "Pakistan doesn't deserve her at all". "Lots and Lots of Love and respect from here. Wish you were our prime minister. this country would have changed," she said.ALSO READ 39 missing Indians in Iraq: Sushma Swaraj's Lok Sabha statement rekindles hope of familiesWon't declare anybody dead without evidence: Sushma Swaraj on 39 Indians missing in Iraq