UAE firm fires Indian on sending journalist abusive messages.
In December last year, an Indian residing in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) sent some sexually explicit and abusive messages to journalist Rana Ayyub. He probably thought he would get away with it unharmed, but it cost him his job.The expat from Kerala, who goes by the name Bincy Lal on Facebook, abused Rana Ayyub messages on Facebook messenger. Taking screenshots of these messages, Ayyub posted them on Twitter last week, triggering a wave of angered responses on social media.Just a sample of the filth i receive on my facebook page. Time to name and shame this pervert pic.twitter.com/e6xeA019JFWhen the report reached Bincy's employers, Alpha Paint, a Sharjah-based firm, the administration ordered a probe against him, and eventually found out that the allegations were true. Reports say that Bincy even admitted to sending these messages."When we checked on his Facebook account, we saw the abusive message which was sent to that lady in addition to offensive posts against Islam," Alpha Paint's HR manager told the Gulf News.Subsequently, the company issued a termination order against Bincy. Bincy's visa was cancelled on Monday and deportation order has also been issued.Ayyub said on Twitter that she will also be filing a police complaint in Delhi against Bincy. Have reported to the police officials in UAE, will file an FIR in Delhi today. https://t.co/rQyQghdo0eAyyub later tweeted that the National paints, Alpha Paints' sister company, has called her to apologise for the harassment she faced from their employee, Bincy Lal.National paints , Sharjah just called me to apologise on behalf of the company for the harassment i faced from their ex-employee Bincy lalMany have since applauded this step taken by the UAE company.Fantastic @RanaAyyub for standing up to this abuse. ?? https://t.co/mtPqPrjgmYIndian companies and even MNC's need to learn from this. Zero tolerance for sexual harassment & incitement https://t.co/SmipAXVNpd From featuring a menstruation temple to UAE army, 7 reasons why you shouldn't skip the Republic Day Parade 2017Did you know falcons in UAE have their own passports?UAE Crown Prince in India: Maritime training, defence and agricultural cooperation on top of list41 Indian sailors stranded in leaking ships in UAE, Sushma Swaraj assures help