Chinese official demoted for not smoking near Muslim leaders.
leaders From K J M Varma Beijing, Apr 11 (PTI) In an unusual move, China has demoted a ruling Communist party official in the volatile Uygur Muslim majority Xinjiang province for not "daring" to smoke in front of local religious leaders, regarding it as a sign of timidity in fighting against extremism. Jelil Matniyaz, the party chief of a village in Hotan, Xinjiang was demoted from "senior staff member" to "staff member" on March 25 for his "infirm political stands...and for being afraid to smoke in front of religious figures," a notice posted on the Hotan Dailys social media WeChat account said. "Smoking is a personal choice, and religious and ordinary people should respect each other, but his behaviour of not daring to smoke conforms with extreme religious thought in Xinjiang," the Global Times quoted a Hotan official as saying. "As a party chief, he should lead the fight against extreme religious thought, otherwise, he would fail to confront the threat of extreme regional forces," the official said. "According to local religion customs, smoking is not allowed in front of older or religious people," Turgunjun Tursun, a professor with the Zhejiang Normal University, said. However, some religious people force ordinary citizens also to comply with the requirements, a senior official who had been working in Xinjiang for years, told the paper. The officials demotion is an isolated case, Tursun said, adding that the local government should balance de-extremist behaviour and local customs in the crackdown on extremism. The move to demote the official comes as authorities intensified their efforts to curb religious extremism. Early this month, the province where the Chinese security forces are battling recurring attacks by Uygur militants enacted a new law banning a wide range of acts, including wearing veils or growing "abnormal" beards. In Xinjiang, the Turkic speaking Uygurs are restive for several years over increasing settlements of Han population from other provinces. China blames separatist East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an Al-Qaeda affiliated group for the spate of violent attacks in the province. A number of its members reported to have joined the Islamic State militant group to fight in Syria. China believes that they would return to carry out attacks in the country. 