India is the guru, Tibetans are disciples: Dalai Lama.
The 14th Dalai Lama calls India a 'guru' and Tibet a 'chela' (disciple) but then there are moments when a 'chela' cries on meeting his guru. This is what happened in Dirang, Arunachal Pradesh, when a disciple of Dalai Lama gave him a tearful welcome. The location was Thupsung Dhargye Ling Monastery in Dirang. Thupten Rinpoche was in tears as he read out the welcome speech for Dalai Lama. In a moment, his throat choked and he stopped reading, and started crying inconsolably. Within minutes, half of the gathering was in tears as they saw Dalai Lama in the prayer hall. TEACHINGS OF RAMA AND BUDDHA Thupten said, "Bodh Gaya teachings and message are being spread across the world by Dalai Lama. We are lucky to have you here. Thanks for coming.""We welcome you with a heavy yet happy heart. You are (our) guru... We are blessed to listen to you. The temple and the monastery have been built only because of your blessings," Thupten said, who is the in-charge of the monastery. At the monastery, teachings of Lord Rama and Buddha are taught as is the Gita. These teachings--monastery has teachers from South India too--are delivered thrice a week and anyone can attend the sessions.INDIA LOSING ITS SPIRITUALITYPhurpa Tsering, MLA Dirang and parliamentary secretary for health in Chief Minister Pema Khandu's cabinet, also gave an emotional welcome to Dalai Lama."We are blessed to learn words of wisdom from His Holiness. It was the sudden change of programme to travel by road instead of air that has given an opportunity to everyone to get your blessings," Phurpa Tsering said. Governor of Arunachal Pradesh P B Acharya harped on the need for spirituality and spiritual leaders."We are a secular country but we are losing our spirituality. Without spirituality, we will become demons. There are 500 universities which provide knowledge but don't produce human beings who can share," the Governor said. "You are an 82-year-old young man who travels extensively. Please give us your time; you are a living god and saint. India will lead with you," P B Acharya said. "Modi is a great man and India has the potential to become a world leader. We share borders with countries like China and Myanmar. We need you in the Northeast. We want peace and you can guide us," Acharya said.INDIA-TIBET RELATION IS SPECIALDalai Lama talked abut the guru-chela relationship between India and Tibet. "India is historically our guru and we Tibetans are the chela," he said. "India is the land of Buddha... India and Tibet relationship is very special," Dalai Lama said.ALSO READ: