Won't be able to write about my life in a book: Salman Khan.
After Rekha- The Untold Story, Rishi Kapoor's Khullam Khulla and Shatrughan Sinha's Khamosh, the dancing queen of showbiz, who wore the crown of a bouffant accompanied by the winged-eyeliner, Asha Parekh, the pioneer of shimmying, is the latest celebrity to have divulged the secrets and celebrations of her life through her autobiography, penned by film critic and author Khalid Mohamed, titled The Hit Girl! The 74-year-old legend unveiled her book at a suburban five star hotel in Mumbai with a galaxy of yesteryear stars  including the likes of Dharmendra, Jeetendra, Waheeda Rahman, Helen coming together on one stage, along with Salman Khan. While applauding the legend Asha Parekh, (who's filmography boasts of umpteen hits like Teesri Manzil, Dil Dekhe Dekho, Kati Patang among others) for her bold attempt to pen an autobiography, Salman Khan made an honest confession. "It's the bravest thing to write your own autobiography, I wouldn't dare write mine. Dharam ji will understand that. I've known Asha ji since we were kids, she's very dear to us. Saira aunty, my Mom, Helen Aunty, Sadhna, all the girls have been so close to each other, something our girls these days should learn from them. We don't see that anymore. It is the best quality that generation had and we've lost that in our times. We have friends, but they were never not friends," he said.With a forward by Salman Khan, The Hit Girl traces the journey of Asha Parekh's illustrious career in the film industry, which she admits is brutally honest. "My autobiography showcases the journey from black-and-white era to colour. I was blessed by God and my parents. I get recurring questions from my friends, fans and people interested in me that will there be enough masala in my book I have attempted to be honest. The episodes are not sensationalised. Truth is what you will find." (Photos: Yogen Shah) ALSO READ: Salman Khan unveils first look of Sairat star Aakash Thosar's next, FU 