Sunil to get new show on channel airing Kapil's show: Report.
Sunil Grover, who has been making a lot of news these days after the mid-air feud with his TKSS co-star Kapil Sharma, is back, and this time with his own team and own brand of humour. So, yes, the much in news Sunil Grover is coming up with his own show and it will air on Sony TV.Sources confirm that Sunil Grover has been offered a new show by Sony TV and it can go on air as early as June this year.According to sources, the show will have a new slot and new artistes, and will not conflict with The Kapil Sharma Show. Sunil reportedly had a closed door meeting with Sony; and apparently the deal has been locked for the show. Also read: Sunil Grover still being wooed by channel to return to TKSS?We also hear that the show will be produced in association with the creative director of TKSS, Preeti Simoes--who is also rumoured to be the ex-girlfriend of Kapil Sharma. Meanwhile, on The Kapil Sharma Show, the only original members left are Kiku Sharda and Sumona Chakravarty, and Kapil is getting in place a new team.Also read: Sunil Grover to team up with Sunny Leone for his next project?Along with Sunil Grover, there will be many others who will be seen in the new show. Reportedly, Ali Asgar who used to play Naani in Kapil's show will also be part of this new show. Joining Sunil and Ali will be Sugandha Mishra who has been been an integral part of The Kapil Sharma Show. There is another ex-TKSS member who will join this show and he's Kapil's school friend Chandan Prabhakar. Apparently, all these people had witnessed Kapil and Sunil's mid-air feud that happened en route Mumbai (from Melbourne) last month around Holi.Also read: Good news for Kapil fans, Preeti Simoes is back after breakMeanwhile, Sunil will be seen doing live IPL commentary with Bollywood's Baby Doll Sunny Leone for a news app on April 13. He has also been busy doing live events including the one he did in Delhi recently. Besides, he also put up an amazing show in the grand finale of Indian Idol. 