Who is Kulbhushan Jadhav, Indian sentenced to death in Pak?.
Addressing Kulbhushan Jadhav as an Indian RAW agent, Pakistan's Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) released a statement saying Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav, who was living as Hussein Mubarak Patel, was arrested on March 3 last year through a "Counter Intelligence Operation" from Balochistan's Mashkel. The arrest was for his alleged involvement in espionage and sabotage activities against Pakistan.The statement also said that Kulbhushan Jadhav "the spy" has been tried through Field General Court Martial (FCGM) and was sentenced to death today.WHO IS KULBHUSHAN JADHAV? Kulbhushan Jadhav is an Indian citizen, recognised by the Indian government as a former naval officer, and was arrested by Pakistan alleging espionage. Pakistan claims Kulbhushan Jadhav, sometimes spelled Kulbhushan Yadav, was arrested near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border of Chaman in Balochistan over illegal entry into the country. India, however, claims that Kulbhushan Jadhav was abducted by Pakistan from Iran. Kulbhushan Jadhav was arrested by the Pakistani forces on March 3, 2016, and was accused of being an undercover agent of India's primary intelligence agency -- the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) -- and of being involved in propagating sectarian violence in Balochistan. Balochistan Home Minister Sarfraz Bugti accused Kulbhushan Jadhav of helping terrorists financially and alleged his involvement in Karachi unrest.  Jadhav is said to have been arrested after he was caught speaking in Marathi to his family over a mobile phone. KULBHUSHAN JADHAV'S BACKGROUND Kulbhushan Jadhav joined the Indian National Defence Academy in the year 1987. He joined the Indian Navy in the year 1991. In a video "evidence" Pakistan produced to prove that Kulbhushan confessed he is indeed a RAW agent, he could be heard saying he served in the Indian Navy till the 2001 Parliament attack happened.After the Parliament attack of 2001, Kulbhushan Jadhav went undercover as Hussain Mubarak Patel to gather information and intelligence within India. Jadhav, who took permanent retirement from the Indian Navy, became a businessman and travelled across the world. Kulbhushan's family members told The Indian Express last year that he carried necessary documents whenever he travelled and that they suspect he was "framed as part of a larger political conspiracy". Kulbhushan Jadhav, a resident of Mumbai's Hiranandani Gardens, belongs to a family of police officers. Kulbhushan's father Sudhir Jadhav retired as an Assistant Commissioner of Police in Mumbai around nine years ago and his uncle Subhash Jadhav was in charge of Bandra police station in 2002, said The Indian Express report.   A report in the DNA said that Kulbhushan set up a business of operating ferries from the Iranian port town of Bandar Abbas. Jadhav is married and has two children.KULBHUSHAN JADHAV'S CONFESSION Pakistan produced a "video confession" in which Kulbhushan Jadhav could be seen narrating that he was a serving Indian Naval officer and that he was undercover in Pakistan as part of his work with RAW. He could also be seen accepting that he launched an operation to destabilise Pakistan from the Iranian port of Chabahar and that RAW had been funding the sectarians in Balochistan.Here is the video Pakistan produced: DOCTORED VIDEO India Today had accessed intelligence reports that indicate that the video of Kulbhushan Jadhav, the so-called Indian spy, is a doctored one. Also, intelligence agencies suspect that a group named Jaishul Adil that owes its allegiance to the Al-Qaeda is responsible for kidnapping the Indian businessman.|| Also read : 'Spy' Kulbhushan Yadav not caught but abducted by extremist Sunni group Jaishul Adil" ||INDIAN GOVERNMENT'S STANCE