Pak sentences former Indian Navy officer to death for spying.
The Pakistan Army today announced death sentence to Indian citizen Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was arrested on espionage charges. The ex-Indian Navy officer was arrested in March, 2016. India has been claiming that Jadhav was abducted in Iran. A statement issued by  Pakistan's Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) described Jadhav as a Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) agent who was arrested during "Counter Intelligence Operation" from Mashkel, Balochistan.  "RAW agent Commander Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav was tried BY FGCM under section 59 of Pakistan Army Act (PAA) 1952) and Section 3 of official Secret Act of 1923. FGCM found Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav guilty of all the charges," the ISPR statement said. Reacting to the news, the Congress has demanded the government to get back Jadhav."Kulbhushan Jadhav has been sentenced to death by Kangroo Proceedings in Pakistan that no one even knows ever took place. GOI must get him back," senior Congress leader Manish Tewari tweeted. KULBHUSHAN Jadhav has been sentenced to death by Kangroo Proceedings in Pakistan that no one even knows ever took placeGOI must get him backINDIA REJECTED PAKISTAN'S CHARGEJadhav, 46, was arrested by Pakistan police in Balochistan in March last year. He was accused by Pakistan of creating unrest in Balochistan and Karachi. The Pakistan Army even released a video in which Jadhav purportedly "confesses" to his "involvement" in terror activities in Balochistan at his country's behest.WATCH | Exclusive: Pak group behind Kulbhushan Jadhav's kidnapping The video is so slick, it was called a 'well-produced' evidence. Since March 2016, India issued at least six note verbales to Pakistan to get consular access to Jadhav, but there was no breakthrough. While Pakistan had been claiming Jadhav is a commander-rank officer with the Indian Navy, India has rejected the allegation and maintained that he retired from the Navy in 2002 and was now a businessman.WATCH: Sartaj Aziz: Not enough evidence against Indian 'spy' Kulbhushan Jadhav