Ghajini director slams National Awards jury for being biased.
This year, award shows have come under the scanner. After the Filmfare Awards got flak for not nominating Akshay Kumar (Airlift) or Manoj Bajpayee (Aligarh) in the Best Actor category, the National Awards are being slammed for their decisions. Filmmaker AR Murugadoss also alleged on Twitter that the National Awards were biased this time. "Can clearly witness the influence & partiality of people in jury, it's biased," he wrote.#NationalAwardsCan clearly witness the influence & partiality of people in jury, it's biased.The decision to give Akshay Kumar the Best Actor for Rustom over other contenders like Aamir Khan (Dangal) and Manoj Bajpayee (Aligarh) has been questioned, with many alleging that the jury headed by Priyadarshan was biased. That the filmmaker is close to Akshay is common knowledge, and many claim that he abused his position as the head of the jury to favour the actor, who he directed in several films like Hera Pheri and Bhool Bhulaiyya.However, Priyadarshan defended the decision and told Indian Express, "Why are we insulting an actor If he was a bad actor, how is he one of the top stars of the film industry for so many years 38 people decided to award him and these people are sensible. Does that mean they are fools Also, last year Mr Amitabh Bachchan got the best actor trophy (for Piku) and Ramesh Sippy was on the jury, no one questioned that. When Ajay Devgn won for Gangaajal, Prakash Jha was on the jury. That time also no one said anything."Other than Murugadoss, Aligarh director Hansal Mehta too expressed his disappointment over the list of winners. However, he clarified that the disappointment wasn't directed at anyone. He wrote on Twitter, "When I expressed my disappointment about the National Awards it was personal and not directed at anybody. I would like to believe that the jury has done its best within their understanding and framework. Aligarh was not considered worthy in that framework by the appointed juries just like Lunchbox was ignored in the year that Shahid won two national awards. I did not complain then and I am not complaining now either. I've got to respect the decision and move on."He added, "What hurts is that in some statement the chairperson who I respect and whose films I've often enjoyed says that 'While watching films we realised that a lot of Bollywood movies were themed around homosexuality. The mnovies are not really highlighting social problems. Whereas regional cinema are themed around fantastic social issues.' This statement is disturbing and sensitive. Priyadarshan sir, Aligarh did not meet the standards set by you and your jury - I accept that. But your views on homosexuality not figuring as a 'fantastic' social issue rankles."\When I expressed disappointment about the National Awards it was personal and not directed at anybody. I would.. pic.twitter.com/1bPzeOGmKA