Sena questions AI CMD's 'aukat', accuses him of insulting MP.
As reports came in that the fly ban on Shiv Sena MP Ravindra Gaikwad, who was blacklisted by airlines after he assaulted an Air India staffer at New Delhi airport last month, may be lifted soon, the party questioned the 'aukat' of Air India's Chairman and Managing Director (CMD)."Clips mein saaf hai ki MP se durvyavhar ho raha hai. CMD ki kya aukaat hai ki social media par ek saansad ka apmaan kar rahe ho? Aap hame tameez seekha rahe ho toh aap bhi tameez seekh lo," Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said.The ban on him is likely to be soon but before that an apology letter from Gaikwad, who apologised before the Parliament but refused to say sorry to airline officials, is a precondition.ANI quoted sources saying that Air India will withdraw the ban imposed on Gaikwad if he is ready to apologise.GAIKWAD 'S LETTER Gaikwad has written a letter of regret to the civil aviation minister over the incident. He sent it to the Speaker's office and has been forwarded to the civil aviation minister who is looking into the letters to decide the further course of action. Shiv Sena has threatened to boycott NDA meeting on April 10 if their MP's name was not removed from the blacklist of airlines."The minister's reply was not satisfactory (in the Parliament). If the matter is not resolved till 10th then we will boycott NDA dinner. This decision has been taken after talking to Uddhav Thackeray," Raut said.During the Zero Hour, there were unruly scenes with Shiv Sena members protesting against the ban and even thumping the desk of Civil Aviation Minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju in anger and did not let him leave. Shiv Sena's Anant Geete also shouted at the minister and tried to heckle him.IS GAIKWAD A TERRORIST, ASKS SHIV SENAParty MP Sanjay Raut questioned whether their MP Gaikwad is a terrorist that such a decision has been taken against him."Serial offenders, rapists and even separatists and others can travel then why can't our MP?," he said adding that they didn't want to disturb the proceedings of the parliament.The BJP ally had moved an adjournment notice on the fly ban issue in the Lok Sabha. Shiv Sena MP Anandrao Adsul gave the adjournment notice stating that decision taken by Air India and other private airlines is a violation of fundamental rights.Home Minister Rajnath Singh assured that discussions will be held with the stakeholders to find an "amicable solution" at the earliest.Gaikwad tendered an apology to Parliament but insisted that he owed no apology to the airline officials as he sought removal of the ban imposed on him by domestic airlines."I apologise to the Parliament if I have caused any hurt, but not to the Air India official. I did not thrash anyone, this is injustice against me....What was my crime, media is conducting a trial against me," Gaikwad said.ALERT AT AIRPORTSAir India is likely to step up security of its staff at Mumbai and Pune airports after Shiv Sena lawmakers allegedly threatened to stall the airline's operations at these two aerodromes."We won't even let our flight operations hamper. Air India flights will operate smoothly in Mumbai and Pune. We have already spoken to the security department," sources said.Air India CMD Ashwani Lohani had a one-on-one meeting with the civil aviation minister. It is learnt that Lohani conveyed to the minister how the Gaikwad issue is extremely sensitive and also that Air India employees across departments have taken this issue personally.No decision was taken in the meeting, the sources said.Also read:I am a humble person but won't apologise to Air India staff whom I hit: Shiv Sena MP Ravindra GaikwadGrounded MP Gaikwad tweaked name 4 times to book Air India tickets