13-yr-old boy raped in Mumbai dies of multiple organ failure.
The father of a 13-year-old boy, who consumed rat poison on July 13 owing to repeated sexual assaults, has recorded the child?s description of the accused in a one-minute video. While the video is unclear and does not give many details, the police said the boy told them the name of the accused starts with a ?Z?.According to the police, the 13-year-old and his 10-year-old best friend and neighbour were raped repeatedly in Filterpada in Powai on July 6. Feeling humiliated, the kids drank rat poison. While the 10-year-old died on July 13, the 13-year-old died on Tuesday morning.?My son told me the accused took them to separate rooms in Filterpada. For days after the incident, he looked scared. On July 12, he told me they had consumed rat poison near a temple. I rushed him to a hospital. His friend died early next day,? the father told HT.The distraught man asked his son about the culprits and recorded it. The video which shows the boy struggling to give clear answers to his father?s queries has been handed over to the police. Read: Unsafe Mumbai: After sexual abuse, children fear trauma of facing police, family, societyThe video, the police said, shows the boy saying he was trying to run away, but someone is chasing him. He says the accused?s eyes were scary, said police. A Powai police official told HT they couldn?t record the boy?s statement due to his deteriorating condition. The police have questioned all his friends and are trying to identify the accused. They are also questioning several people from Filterpada. The father said the 13-year-old stopped going to tuition classes since July 6. He claimed the tuition class homework done on the last day may have been done by someone else as the handwriting is different.  The police are checking whose handwriting it is, as the person might have some information about the incident.The body of the 10-year-old, who was buried thinking he died of dehydration, has been exhumed. ND Reddy, zonal DCP, told HT: ?We are trying to find the accused.? The local crime branch unit is running a parallel probe. Read: Child sexual abuse: Parents, stop saying ?don?t tell anyone?, ?you provoked it?, go to police in time