Shiv Sena MP Gaikwad reaches Delhi via chartered flight.
Shiv Sena MP Ravindra Gaikwad, who has been banned from flying by several airlines after he assaulted an Air India staffer on March 23, reached Delhi on Wednesday via a chartered flight, according to sources.Shiv Sena is all set to create ruckus in Parliament on Thursday to push for its demand to revoke the flying ban against its MP Ravindra Gaikwad. The chartered flight by which Gaikwad flew in to Delhi is believed to have been provided by another Shiv Sena MP Rajkumar Dhoot. Sources say Gaikwad will be reaching Parliament on April 6. Shiv Sena is expected to create ruckus in Parliament against the ban imposed on him.  Sena MPs had approached Civil Aviation Minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju seeking his intervention into the matter, but they failed to get any assurance from him. SHIV SENA THREATENS TO CREATE RUCKUSShiv Sena MP Anand Adsul, while speaking in the Zero Hour on Wednesday, said that no one was listening to his party. "Just because we are in the government does not imply we cannot create ruckus", he threatened.   Adsul will move an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha on April 6 on the issue of blacklisting of Gaikwad by airlines and the government's alleged failure to take action against them. If sources are to be believed, Shiv Sena is going to raise this issue prominently once Gaikwad reaches Parliament. Despite trying hard to get the government to lift the travel ban, Sena has not found any success yet. It seems the BJP is, rightly so, avoiding backing the Shiv Sena on an issue that has evoked so much nationwide outrage.Gaikwad, who hails from Osmanabad in Maharashtra, had allegedly hit an Air India staffer 25 times with a slipper on board a Pune-Delhi flight. This prompted Air India to ban him and other airlines followed suit with the result that he had to travel back to Maharashtra by August Kranti Rajdhani Express after he couldn't book an air ticket on any carrier.GAIKWAD FAKED HIS NAME TO GET FLIGHT TICKETThe aggrieved Air India staffer also lodged two FIRs against Gaikwad in Delhi, investigation into which is still on. Gaikwad tried to fly 4 times even under false identities, but his ticket could not be processed. Facing scathing criticism over the incident, the Shiv Sena had earlier assured that it would reprimand Gaikwad, but that never happened. In fact, the party began defending his action soon after. Senior leaders of the party think that they are being cornered by the BJP on this issue as they have found no support from anywhere. This has prompted the Sena to resort to an aggressive and unruly show of strength, and Parliament is likely to witness uproarious scenes over the issue on Thursday.Also read | Slippergate: Shiv Sena to protest in Parliament if MP Ravindra Gaikwad's flying ban is not liftedAlso read | Grounded MP Gaikwad tweaked name 4 times to book Air India tickets