Dalai Lama reaches Arunachal amid Chinese opposition.
Despite protests by China, the 14th Dalai Lama today arrived in Arunachal Pradesh but will skip the famous Tawang monastery due to bad weather.The visit is opposed by China which considers Arunachal Pradesh to be a part of southernmost Tibet.His Holiness was greeted by chanting of prayers, music and religious flags with hymns and praises written on them. The crowd swelled despite bad weather and the wait did not deter the followers of the Tibetan spiritual leader from standing for hours.Dalai Lama was to reach Tawang in morning but the plans were changed due to extremely turbulent weather in neighbouring Assam. He then had to take the road route instead of a chopper which resulted in a change of plans.Hundreds of followers gathered in and around the entire Bomdila daring rough weather and heavy rainfall to catch a glimpse of the Tibetan leader in exile.He visited different monasteries including the Tibetan Monastery in Bomdila and is tentatively scheduled to stay there overnight. The road route was sanitised for his travel.Arunachal Chief Minister Pema Khandu and senior BJP leader Sudhanshu Mittal also accompanied him on the route.Thanks to His Holiness @DalaiLama for deciding to travel by road to Tawang. Enroute to Bomdila with @SudhanshuBJP Ji.. pic.twitter.com/qtynpCbNagHis Holiness @DalaiLama accorded warm welcome today at Thubchog Gatsel Ling Monastery, Bomdila. Blessed by his visit. pic.twitter.com/JVuilBTqYvDalai Lama spent some time with them discussing about the change and developments of the state before entering Bomdilla. Interestingly there was snowfall in Tawang from the past three days and the locals were praying for the weather to improve for his arrival. Continuous prayers by the disciples were answered and it was sun shining today however Dalai Lama will not arrive.(Inputs from Yuvraj Mehta in Arunachal Pradesh)Also read:China repeats warning ahead of Dalai Lama's Arunachal visitIndia on China's objection to Dalai Lama's Arunachal Pradesh visit: Stop creating artificial controversy