Why are you lying: Hrithik to model calling him friend.
Hrithik Roshan shoots ads and one of the many women he shot an ad with happens to be Polish model-turned-actor Angela Krislinzki.Recently, in an interview with DNA, Angela Krislinzki gushed about the actor and her camaraderie with him. Her words made it appear like Hrithik and Angela share some special bond and as such the publication compared Angela to Kites actor Barbara Mori "who he (Hrithik) then took under his wing."When Hrithik Roshan read the report this morning, he took a screenshot of the interview, took to Twitter and wondered out loud, "My dear lady, who are you and why are u lying. (sic)"My dear lady, who are you and why are u lying. pic.twitter.com/xydPrKr8nHIn the interview, Angela Krislinzsi reminisced about the time Hrithik Roshan was "supportive" and gave her "acting tips.""Like every other newcomer, I had a crush on Hrithik when I worked with him for the first time in a commercial. When I told him about my half-Spanish background, he was reminded about the old-world charm of Valencia and Spain. He was supportive and gave me acting tips," Angela said.She went on to add that she found a mentor and friend in Hrithik."I was under the impression that he had forgotten me. After all, he is a star who shoots umpteen ads with several young models. But he called out to me and remembered all the conversations we'd had and the fact that my dad was from Valencia. He also asked me jokingly whether the colour of my eyes was real. When I signed a movie in the South. He also inquired about the maker and assured me that this film would definitely take me places," Angela said.The interview goes on to add that Hrithik Roshan has "great plans" for Angela and that the actor is even considering her "for one of his big films.""I consider Hrithik a mentor and keep him informed. I showed him a song from my last south release, Size Zero and he liked it immensely. Later, I I even sent him the first look and trailer of my upcoming film Rogue and he was impressed," Angela added.Angela Krislinzki has so far co appeared in three films in the South; Jyothi Lakshmi, Size Zero and Rogue.