Prashant Bhushan calls Lord Krishna 'legendary eve teaser'.
Since Lord Krishna was a "legendary Eve-teaser," will Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath - who has unleashed 'anti-Romeo' squads in a crackdown on sexual harassment - have "the guts" to call these teams "AntiKrishna squads"?That's precisely the question lawyer and Swaraj Abhiyan co-founder Prashant Bhushan posted on his Twitter account earlier today. See for yourself. Romeo loved just one lady,while Krishna was a legendary Eve teaser.Would Adityanath have the guts to call his vigilantes AntiKrishna squads? https://t.co/IYslpP0ECv He later issued a clarification, saying his tweet was being "distorted.""My position is: By the logic of Romeo Brigade, even Lord Krishna would look like eve teaser." In another tweet, he added, "We have grown up with legends of young Krishna teasing Gopis.The logic of Romeo squad would criminalise this.Didn't intend to hunt (hurt) sentiments." BJP REBUKES BHUSHAN The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wasted no time in chiding Bhushan - whose remark is certain to irk many, many more - and said the lawyer had insulted Lord Krishna.Bhushan should first study India's tradition and mythology and then make such comments, BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav said."Saddening" was how BJP National Spokesperson Sambit Patra chose to describe it.In a Hindi tweet, Patra said it takes several births to understand Lord Krishna, and suggested that it was unfortunate that the deity's name was being politicized.Meanwhile, Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Tejinder Bagga said he has written to the police asking for a case to be filed against Bhushan under IPC sections 153(a) and 295. The complaint has been sent to the the Tilak Marg police station, Bagga said.He added: "He (Bhushan) always does this for cheap publicity. He has to give (a) written apology for this."OWAISI'S POTSHOT Bhushan's remark comes a day after MP Asaduddin Owaisi took a pot shot at the BJP's policies on beef in two states - Uttar Pradesh, where a crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses is underway, and Nagaland, where there's no such policy yet.In fact, Visasolie Lhoungu, the Nagaland BJP chief, told the Hindustan Times, "(A) ban on cow slaughter like the one in UP won't take effect in Nagaland if our party comes to power next year. The reality here is very different and our central leaders are aware of that."All this prompted Owaisi to ask:  Are cows 'mummy' in Uttar Pradesh and 'yummy' in Nagaland? ALSO READ | Yogi Adityanath backs anti-romeo squads to make UP safe for women; all that he said at GorakhpurALSO READ |  Owaisi slams BJP over beef 'hypocrisy', says cow 'mummy' in UP, 'yummy' in NortheastWATCH VIDEO | Bhushan calls Lord Krishna 'legendary Eve teaser,' asks if Adityanath will call his teams 'Anti-Krishna squads'