Four Mumbai auto drivers arrested for string of burglaries.
The Vile Parle police recently arrested four people for allegedly carrying out several burglaries across Mumbai. The police added they have a prior criminal record and were out on bail. According to the Vile Parle police, the accused have been identified as Ayappa Shetty, 40, Dinesh Ramashankar Yadav, 26, Himanshu Dilip Somaiya, 34 and Sunil Baburao Shetty, 35.All of them are autorickshaw drivers and operated in Kandivali, Nalasopara, Malad and Virar. They were wanted in 12 other burglary cases, which were registered against them at various places in Mumbai.Senior police inspector, Laxman Chavan, of Vile Parle police station said, ?We have been on the lookout for the accused since the past four months and were working on information against them. We had checked the CCTV footage from the areas where they had committed burglaries and could figure out their faces enough to make a sketch. Their modus operandi was the same.?The burglars would keep an eye on house owners and figure out the timings when the owners wouldn?t be home. When their houses would be empty, the burglars would enter the house by breaking open the locks and flee with cash and gold ornaments. The accused used their autorickshaws to carry the booty and flee from the crime spot.A team led by police sub inspector Vikas Patil nabbed the accused from Kandivali on last Thursday after receiving a tip-off about their hide out. They were later taken to the Vile Parle police station.?There is a possibility that there are more members involved in the crime. We are investigating the case,? added Chavan.He also added that no recoveries have been made until now, but with the ongoing probe there is a high possibility of majority of the stolen items being recovered.The accused were kept in police custody till Monday and were produced before the Andheri magistrate court on Tuesday. They have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for burglary, criminal conspiracy.