Nigeria summons Indian envoy over Greater Noida mall attack.
Days after four Nigerian students were allegedly beaten up by a mob at a mall in Greater Noida, Nigeria has asked the Indian government to ensure immediate arrest and prosecution of those responsible for the attack on its nationals.Indian ambassador to Nigeria B Nagabhushana Reddy was summoned by the Nigerian government to discuss the issue and share Nigeria's concerns with the Indian government.According to News Agency of Nigeria, Olushola Enikanolaiye, permanent secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Nigeria, spoke to the Indian ambassador in that country. The Nigerian official asked for action against the offenders and called it necessary to prevent similar incidents in future. THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME"It is a concern to us that Nigerian students in that place were harassed, beaten up and many of them were seriously injured," Olushola Enikanolaiye is said to have told the Indian ambassador. The Nigerian official said this was not the first time that people of his country were attacked in India. "Nigerians have suffered similar attack in the past," Olushola Enikanolaiye was quoted as saying. "We think this should not have happened considering the excellent relationship between two of us--the two countries have things in common and have been great friends," the Nigerian official said. JUSTICE WILL BE DONEThe Indian ambassador to Nigeria called the incident deplorable and said Minister of External Affairs Sushma Swaraj has issued a statement condemning the incident. He said the Indian government is determined to see that "justice is done".Ambassador Nagabhushana Reddy told the Nigerian official that five accused in the case have been arrested.  BE CALM, STAY VIGILANTNigeria has asked its nationals residing in India to remain vigilant. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has advised Nigerians living in India to remain calm and be watchful of their surroundings.She condemned the attacks on Nigerian students and called it deplorable and unwarranted. ALSO READ:Greater Noida: Boy dies under mysterious circumstances, parents blame Nigerian neighbours 