I have lost films in South India for being too fair: Taapsee.
If there's one thing that stands out in the Naam Shabana trailers, it's Taapsee Pannu's badass fighting skills. Taapsee and Akshay Kumar have been creating awareness about self-defence and even made a video urging women to learn to protect themselves and demonstrating techniques for the same. Has Taapsee ever had to use such techniques in real life She tells IndiaToday.in, "Thankfully, since the time I have learnt it, no. I guess no one wants to take on me after that (laughs). But in school and college, there have been instances where I wish I knew how to defend myself."Don't just freeze...ACT & REACT coz ur biggest weapon is with YOU! Watch, learn & show your move with #KohniMaar! Kya pata kab kaam aa jaye pic.twitter.com/ugDEtRvouzTaapsee tells us that unlike her onscreen persona Shabana, she "hates to hit people." In fact, she says that she does not relate to her character on any level. "She is a very composed and a controlled person. I am very expressive and hyperactive. She can read between the lines and has a strong sixth sense. I'm very gullible, I take everything at face value," the actor elaborates.The toughest part of getting into Shabana's shoes was not the physical aspect of it, contrary to what people think. "I have always been inclined towards sports. What really took a toll on me was the mental bit of it. To give each shot keeping in mind all the characteristics of this girl, who is completely opposite to me, was pretty taxing," Taapsee reveals.And after back-to-back "intense" films, she is going to take a break and do a fun, glamourous role in Judwaa 2. "After Pink, I decided I won't shoot a hardcore, intense film. But I started shooting for Naam Shabana just two days after Pink. It has been too intense, it is high time I relax a bit. It's good that Judwaa 2 came my way. I'm going to dance, wear fancy clothes and all of that," she says, looking almost relieved.Taapsee is one of those actors who put their foot down and refuse to endorse fairness creams. She earnestly tells us, "I have never used a fairness cream in my life. I don't think being fair in any way superior to any other colour. And when I started working, I found that being fair has actually backfired for me. I have lost a few films because I'm too fair. Especially down South (she has done several Tamil and Telugu films), they don't relate this complexion to a girl-next-door. This is something that has not worked for me, so why will I endorse it"She also appeared in a video alongside Swara Bhaskar about how much cleavage is appropriate. Has Taapsee ever been slut-shamed "Not to my face, because I can pretty much rip a person apart if that happens. But behind my back, I'm sure people do talk, but that's how the society is. Just because a female does not walk by the conventional rules, people like to call her by different names like sl*t or b*tch or wh*re or whatever," the Baby actor says, advising women to make use of the block option if this happens online."It's not worth your time and effort attending to such people. They are doing this only to get your attention. And by giving them the attention, you are fulfilling their agenda," she signs off.