Digvijaya slams IT Minister for leaking Dhoni Aadhaar info.
Congress general secretary Digivijaya Singh is one leader who would never miss an opportunity to attack the Opposition. His latest target is Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. The senior Congress leader took to Twitter to criticise the minister hours after cricketer MS Dhoni wife's complaint about her husband's Aadhaar details being leaked. "IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad leaks MS Dhoni's Adhaar Card details. Shameful. He should apologise immediately and another Aadhaar Card should be made for Dhoni. His wife Sakshi is fully justified to be angry and upset," Digivijaya Singh said in a series of tweets.IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad leaks MS Dhoni's Adhaar Card details. ShamefulHe should apologise immediately and another Adhaar Card should be made for Dhoni. His wife Sakshi is fully justified to be angry and upset.Meanwhile, the UIDAI has blacklisted the agency that leaked the Aadhaar receipt Dhoni for 10 years. UIDAI CEO said an inquiry has also been ordered to look into the issue. DHONI'S AADHAAR DETAILS LEAKED On Tuesday CSC e-governance services of India tweeted a photo in which Dhoni was seen authenticating fingerprints to avail Aadhaar services. However, along with the photo of Dhoni, the official Twitter account of CSC also tweeted his Aadhaar registration details in a screenshot, which then prompted led to a number of furious tweets from Dhoni's wife Sakshi.Sakshi tagged Ravi Shankar Prasad in her tweets forcing the minister to take prompt action."@rsprasad @CSCegov_ is there any privacy left  Information of adhaar card including application is made public property!#disappointed," Sakshi had tweeted. "@SaakshiSRawat Thanks for bringing this to my notice. Sharing personal information is illegal. Serious action will be taken against this," Ravi Shankar Prasad replied to her promising action.The screenshot of Dhoni's Aadhaar form was later deleted by the agency involved.WATCH: Government accidentally tweets Dhoni's Aadhaar details, wife Sakshi complainsALSO READ: 