Rahane should continue as India captain: Mitchell Johnson.
Former Australia pacer Mitchell Johnson feels Ajinkya Rahane should be given India's Test captaincy following the home team's series clinching eight-wicket victory over Australia in Dharamsala."Rahane should stay captain! It was a tough series but I believe it should stay on the field with the players," Johnson tweeted. (Virat Kohli blasts detractors: If someone pokes us, we won't back down)Lokesh Rahul and Rahane steered India to an emphatic win in the fourth and final Test to seal the series 2-1. Rahul made 51 not out and Rahane added a rapid unbeaten 38 to help India chase down the modest 106-run victory target with more than five sessions to spare, the opener completing his sixth fifty of the series when he scored the winning runs.Watch: Biggest takeaways from India vs Australia Test seriesJohnson's comments come after Virat Kohli clarified that he is no longer friends with the Australian players following an eventful series which witnessed sparks flying from both the camps. (At times I've let my emotions slip, I apologise: Steve Smith)The Kohli-Steve Smith quarrel started in Bengaluru over a DRS incident when the Australian captain was caught seeking help from his team's dressing room over a review after he was trapped leg before by Umesh Yadav.While Smith called it a "brain fade", Kohli warned the visitors of "crossing the line". International Cricket Council put an end to the saga by not pressing charges against Smith or Kohli. (Matthew Wade's chirping behind the stumps motivated me: Jadeja)SMITH SORRYSmith apologised for his actions on the field once again for what he had already termed as a 'brain fade' moment. (Jadeja wins sledging war against unruly Australian wicketkeeper)"I have been pretty intense throughout this series. I really wanted to do well for the team. At times I have been in my own bubble and have let my emotions slip. I apologise for that," Smith said at the post-match presentation ceremony.FRIENDS NO MOREBefore the start of the series last month, Kohli had said no matter what was said in heated and charged-up moments, everything was forgotten after the contest. He had in fact said that he was "really good friends with all these guys off the field." (Rahane's captaincy draws high praise from Clarke, Ganguly)When asked if he would still be friends with the Aussie cricketers after a keenly fought series, Kohli said no."No, it has changed. I thought that was the case, but it has changed for sure. As I said, in the heat of the battle you want to be competitive but I've been proven wrong. (Virat Kohli ecstatic after historic triumph: 'Our best series win so far')"The thing I said before the first Test, that has certainly changed and you won't hear me say that ever again," he said at the post-match press conference.CLARKE, GANGULY IN AWE OF RAHANE'S CAPTAINCYFormer Australia captain Michael Clarke and former India skipper Sourav Ganguly praised Rahane's leadership qualities in such a crucial match in the absence of regular skipper Kohli, who missed the contest with a shoulder injury. (Virat Kohli has ensured India won't ever back down: Michael Clarke to India Today)