Car RCs to be delivered to owner's residence in Delhi.
Tired of doing the rounds of the dealers store or the licensing office to get your new car registered You can just sit back and relax now as the registration certificate (RC) for your car will soon be delivered right at your doorstep.Starting next week, the Delhi government is going to put in place a new system in which RCs will be delivered at the vehicle owners residence via speed post. At present, people have to visit either the dealers showrooms or the Motor Licensing Offices (MLOs) to get the mandatory document that establishes the ownership of a vehicle and ensures that it is part of the count kept by the transport department of a state. With the new system in place, once the dealers or buyers deposit documents with the MLOs the registration certificates will be directly sent by post to car owners. The move assumes significance as over 10 lakh RCs are issued in the national Capital annually. Of this, nearly seven lakh are issued against new cars and 2.1 lakh are those under transfer of ownership or on resale of used cars. Besides, approximately 55000 additional RCs issued under the duplicate category for those who have lost the document.\According to officials in the transport department the new system will not only make things easier for the vehicle owner, but is aimed at eliminating corruption as well. We were getting feedback that some licensing officers have been engaging in corrupt practices with the car or bike dealers. This system would remove the contact between the dealers and the licensing officers as all documents will collectively reach for dispatch and there shall be no preference given to anybody, a transport official said.Vehicle owners will also get alerts through SMS about the status of their RC. Apart from this, the process of transfer of ownership of vehicles is also going to be simplified with the government planning to introduce an online portal for the same.Hindustan Times spoke to people to know if they liked the idea. Many of them said it would be much easier for them to receive the RC at home. However, some had doubts about how much time the delivery would take. What if the parcel gets lost in transit Anyway, it takes several days now to get an RC. Introduction of the postal system might delay it further as it would take at least a week or 15 days to reach us, said Kritika Manchanda, a resident of Panchsheel Park.