Will try to hit ton and celebrate with two swords: Jadeja.
India all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja really came into his own in the just-concluded series against Australia and starred with both bat and ball to help India win 2-1 and reclaim the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. (Jadeja wins sledging war against unruly Australian wicketkeeper)India rode on KL Rahul's unbeaten 51 and captain Ajinkya Rahane's swashbuckling 38 off 27 balls to beat Australia by 8 wickets on Day 4 of the fourth and final Test on Tuesday. (SCORECARD | BALL-BY-BALL UPDATES)Watch: Biggest takeaways from India vs Australia Test seriesJadeja, who picked up four wickets in the match and scored 63 runs in India's first innings, finished the series as the highest wicket-taker with 25 scalps in four matches with two five-wicket hauls. He also scored 127 runs in six innings at an average of 25.40 with two half-centuries. (Rahane's captaincy draws high praise from Clarke, Ganguly)The 28-year-old, who has a unique sword celebration for every time he gets to a landmark while batting, revealed that the on-field banter with Australian wicketkeeper Matthew Wade motivated him to perform at his best in Dharmsala. (Great win, great summer for India: Sourav Ganguly to India Today)"When I batted, I was thinking to take my time and then Matthew Wade chirped from behind. That motivated me. If I can respond to him with runs, it will be great," Jadeja said at the post-match presentation where he was adjudged the Man of the Match and Man of the Series. (Virat Kohli ecstatic after historic triumph: 'Our best series win so far')Jadeja, who ended India's home Test season with 74 wickets in 14 matches at an outstanding average of 22.54 picking up four five-wicket hauls in the process, said this season was a great opportunity to prove his detractors wrong. (Jadeja shows he can boss the best around)"Coaches and captain have been telling me I have the skill to bat long. I developed as a player overall. Some time ago people didn't consider me a Test bowler. This season is a good response to them. (STATS: Ravindra Jadeja 10th Indian to achieve all-round double of 1000 runs, 100 wickets in Tests)"Ashwin and I maintain pressure from both ends. The variation of off-spinner and left-arm spinner also works well. Hopefully we can continue this outside India too. I will try to get to a hundred next time, and celebrate with two bats as swords," Jadeja said.With 142 wickets against his name, Jadeja now holds an unbelievable record. His wickets tally is now the highest for any left-arm bowler in Test history after the first 30 Tests, surpassing some of the greatest bowlers in the sport.Most wickets in first 30 Tests by left-arm bowlers: