AAP doing nothing for cows: Ved Prakash after joining BJP.
In the run up to Delhi's municipal corporation elections, Aam Aadmi Party MLA Ved Prakash Satish has quit the party to join the BJP. Ved Prakash Satish represented Bawana in the Delhi Assembly after securing a big win the 2015 polls with a margin of over 50,000 votes.Ved Prakash joined the BJP in presence of Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari and party MLA Vijender Gupta. Manoj Tiwari tweeted the photograph of Ved Prakash joining the BJP and his resignation letter.Quitting AAP, Ved Prakash Satish said that the country is 'undergoing a change'. Ved Prakash said, "A big change is taking place in the country. Prime Minister Modi has come at the forefront as a yogi (ascetic) and Yogi (Adityanath) has come in Uttar Pradesh. I have come here (in the BJP's fold) to become part of that change."Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari said, "The opposition is getting frustrated seeing the rise of BJP, which is why they are making false accusations." 'KEJRIWAL IS NOT GETTING RIGHT INFORMATION'Ved Prakash also said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is surrounded by people who are giving him wrong information, which is slowing down progress. Ved Prakash Satish accused Arvind Kejriwal government of doing 'nothing for improvement in Shahabad Dairy region', which falls under his Assembly constituency of Bawana. He said, "The Delhi government did not do anything for Shahabad Dairy region. Nothing was done in Shahabad Dairy in the last two years. Even a crematorium was not built there.""School building was not built. I tried several times. But, no one listened to me," Ved Prakash said.'NO ONE LISTENS IN AAP'Ved Prakash Satish accused Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia of not addressing the concerns of the people. Ved Prakash said, "A five-year-old girl was raped in my area. I called up Manish Sisodia. I messaged him. But, he did not pick up my phone for three days.""The minister does not pick up phone calls from an MLA," Ved Prakash complained.Ved Prakash Satish is the vice-chairman of Delhi Khadi Gramodyog and also the chairman of District Development Committee."I had not come here to become an MLA. I went there thinking that something new was going to happen. I don't have lust for an MLA's position. This is why I tendered my resignation," Ved Prakash said.