Flipper taught by Warne got me Warner's wicket: Kuldeep.
Newcomer Kuldeep Yadav picked up four wickets on debut to help India skittle out Australia for 300 in their first innings on the opening day of the fourth and final Test in Dharamsala on Saturday. (Dharamsala Test, Day 1 Highlights | Scorecard)It was a dream debut for the 22-year-old Kuldeep, who had waited patiently in the wings this entire series. He couldn't control his emotions after he made David Warner his first victim on the big stage. A fired-up Kuldeep then removed Peter Handscomb, Glenn Maxwell and Pat Cummins to enjoy his maiden outing in Team India whites at the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association Stadium. (Stats: Kuldeep Yadav, Steve Smith smash records in Dharamsala Test)Kuldeep, who finished with 4/68, has an armoury loaded with the wrong 'uns, flippers and chinaman. He fired the right weapons at the right time to provide important breakthroughs. (Dream-come-true, couldn't have asked for more: Kuldeep Yadav)He revealed that he has learnt a few tricks of the trade from the Aussie spin wizard Shane Warne and it was great to get his countryman with one of those."Aapne pehla wicket dekha hoga woh chinaman nahin tha. Vo flipper tha, maine unhi (Shane Warne) se seekha tha. Unhi se seekha aur unhi ke batsman ko out karna to obviously acchi si cheez hai. ("Did you see the first wicket (that of David Warner) That was not a chinaman. It was a flipper which I learnt from Shane Warne. So learning from Warne and then getting out his countryman is a nice feeling," said Kuldeep as the conference room burst out in laughter hearing this.What kind of notes did @imkuldeep18 take from @ShaneWarne The Chinaman gives a funny twist to it #TeamIndia#INDvAUSpic.twitter.com/5Yy1x0oIzh"My idol is Warne and I have followed him since my childhood. I only watch his videos and it was a dream-come-true when I met him. I could not believe I was speaking to my idol and sharing my thoughts on bowling and what all I should be doing. I did exactly what he (Warne) told me to do. He has promised that he will have another session with me in near future," he added. (Ashwin breaks Steyn's record)