Sunil Pal accuses director Bazmee of non-payment of dues.
After accusing director Anees Bazme and his friend and associate Mayur Barot for non-payment of dues, comedian Sunil Pal is now planning to take legal action against both of them. However, Anees completely denies the charges. About eight months back I was asked by Anees Bazmee and his friend Mayur Barot to perform at a family function (in Mumbai). They told me I will be paid a certain amount later. But I never got my payment. And while Anees Bazmi got busy with his film, Mubarakan, Barot kept on telling me that they were getting a cheque drawn out for me. After so much of drama when nothing happened, I even messaged Anees Bazmi saying that I am planning to file a police compliant. I was shocked when he replied that I can do whatever I want to and that it wont affect him, says Sunil, adding both of them even said that they would cast him in their films but that too never happened. Meanwhile, the comedian-actor also contacted Cine And TV Artistes Association (CINTAA) and they had asked him to come with a written complaint. But Sunil never went to the cops because he thought that filing a case would take too much time. He therefore decided to make a video with a message for Bazmee and shared it on his Facebook page. In the video he says that he is sorry that Mubarakan didnt work, and that its Gods way of showing justice to those who wrong others.I made the video and sent it to Anees Bazmee around noon on Monday but he didnt reply. So I thought I must upload it on Facebook. Some people have come to my support. Now I am planning to take legal action against both of them. I wont let them get away like this, adds Sunil of The Great Indian Laughter Challenge fame.Director Anees Bazmee denied the allegation brought against him by Sunil Pal.When we got in touch with Bazmee he said that the deal happened between Mayur and Sunil and he has nothing to do in it. I was just a mediator, who introduced them, beyond that I know nothing. Why will I do something like this for such a small amount Sunil used to visit my Mumbai office and he was looking for work. Also I never promised to cast him in my film, says the Welcome Back (2015) director. Voicing a similar opinion, Barot points out that the reason Sunil has dragged Bazmees name is because he is a well-known person. Sir (Anees Bazmi) has nothing to do with it. Sunil was looking for work and wanted to perform at this function. There was no discussion regarding remuneration. But then after sometime he said he wants his payment and even used foul language when I refused. His false accusation is defamatory for someone like me who is just starting his journey (he is producing Remo Dsouzas film Nawabzade) in Bollywood. I just wanted to help Sunil, but it backfired, adds Barot. Follow @htshowbiz for more