UP CM Yogi makes surprise visit to Hazratganj police station.
Yogi Adityanath, the new Uttar Pradesh chief minister, made a surprise visit to the Hazratganj police station in Lucknow.Following an inspection of the police station, Yogi Adityanath said police should be people-friendly and steps will be taken to maintain law and order in the state.During the 30-minute inspection, DGP Javeed Ahmad, IG Satish Ganesh and SSP Manzil Saini were present.Yogi Adityanath visited the mahila (woman's) police station, the local police station and the circle officer's chamber during the inspection. The BJP fought the election in Uttar Pradesh on the development plank and promised to improve the law and order situation in the state.THE THREE ISSUES YOGI ADITYANATH DISCUSSED:#Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said women police officers should be provided better accommodation facilities. He also asked the department to prepare a plan to recruit more women in the police.#He asked for better relationship between the citizens and the police force. The issues he stressed on: there should be seating facility for those visiting the police station; police should be cordial to people; clean drinking water should be available at all police stations.#He also discussed the growing menace of cyber crime with the department and asked for more focus on the cyber crime cell.OTHER MAJOR DECISION OF THE CHIEF MINISTER: Yogi Adityanath, in less than a week since assuming office, has taken several big decisions in line with the promises made by the party in its election manifesto.The chief minister ordered the state police to form anti-Romeo squads to check eve-teasing. These squads, to be deputed near schools and colleges, are carrying out awareness drives across cities. In Lucknow zone, the IG will monitor these squads.Yogi Adityanath also ordered a blanket ban on cow smuggling and said zero tolerance would be exercised against offenders. This in in addition to the government's crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses--the BJP had promised to close illegal slaughterhouses in the state in its election manifesto. Since Yogi Adityanath took oath as the chief minister on March 19, several illegal slaughterhouses have been sealed in Meerut, Ghaziabad, Allahabad among other places.On Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister banned consumption of gutkha, pan masala in state government offices. While visiting the old CM's office in Lucknow, Yogi Adityanath was furious to see paan stains all over the office.On Tuesday, Yogi Adityanath met Union Tourism Minister Mahesh Sharma and is learnt to have discussed the construction of a huge Ramayana museum in Ayodhya. The Centre has already allocated a fund of Rs 154 crore for the ambitious project.ALSO READ:Romeos must die: On Yogi Adityanath's orders, UP police forms squads to crack down on eve-teasers   