BJP MLA's posters in UP mention Deoband as Deovrind.
BJP MLA Brijesh Singh's posters thanking voters for the recent astounding victory have created a stir in the Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh after they named Deoband as Deovrind. While Deoband is known for its historical significance and Darul Uloom Deoband has been a centre of Islamic learning since the Mughal era, Brijesh Singh had demanded that the city be renamed Deovrind after BJP came into power. "I have no such intention that can connect it to any Islamic institution. All I want is to rename Deoband to Deovrind. It is all about development", said Singh when asked about the posters.Singh's supporters too articulated his demand to rename Mughal structures."We not only want Deoband to be renamed as Deovrind, but also want all those places to be renamed which were once under the Mughal rule. We want this to be done under the BJP government," said VHP leader Vikas Tyagi. However, the MLA's move has not gone down well with the Muslim community that forms a sizeable part of the population in Deoband, which is one of the five constituencies in the district."It doesn't matter even if you change the name a thousand times. Deoband will always be known because of Darul Uloom," said Maulana Arshad Madani, president of Jamat Ulema-E-Hind.Due to the eminence of Darul Uloom, Deoband sees an influx of students who come here in pursuit of Islamic learning. The BJP MLA's claims have visibly irked the students too. FOR WHOSE SAKE? "Is renaming Deoband the country's biggest issue? Will it aid in development anyway? Can this improve roads and provide better education?" asked a student. Posters have been put up in different parts of Deoband. Singh, in his defence, had earlier said that the region has been extant since the time of Mahabharata. According to him, even the Pandavas worshipped here.  Singh said that it was in Deoband where Yaksha asked crucial questions to Yudhishthir.  Places like Rankhandi Jakhwala and Jadoda Panda bear testimony to Deoband's historical connections, he added.Deoband has voted BJP to power after 21 years. Singh had defeated BSP's Majid Ali and SP's Mavia Ali by 1, 02,244 votes.Watch | UP: BJP MLA renames Deoband as Deovrind in posters, irks Muslim population 