Jadeja has started to come out of Ashwin's shadow: Ganguly.
Left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja on Tuesday became only the third Indian in history to climb to the top of the ICC rankings for Test bowlers but his rise to the top comes as no surprise to former Indian captain Sourav Ganguly. (WATCH: Team India lands in Dharamsala for series finale)Speaking to India Today, Ganguly had himself rated Jadeja ahead of Ashwin in the current series, even before his form was reflected in the ICC rankings."If you look at this series and the series against England he has just started to come out of the shadow of Ravi Ashwin. Ashwin has 250 Test wickets, ahead of everyone, and is the fastest to the mark, but Jadeja in this series has taken the responsibility. In this series he has gone ahead of Ashwin as far as taking responsibility is concerned," Ganguly told India Today.ICC RANKING FOR TEST BOWLERS:Jadeja claimed nine wickets in Ranchi to take his tally to 21 in the series, four more than Ashwin while the left arm spinner also has a better strike rate and average. His efforts drew high praise from Indian captain Virat Kohli after the drawn third Test."Jadeja's bowling was outstanding in this match. Every bowler bowled well but according to me Jadeja stands out. For this pitch he bowled exceptionally well and showed why he has joined Ashwin as the world's best bowler", said the India captain, who posted a picture of himself with the 'bowling machine' on route to the series decider.No doubt Kohli will depend on the deadly duo of Jadeja and Ashwin to seal a record extending seventh straight series win.Off to Dharamshala for the last one. With the bowling machine â??ï¸?ð???ð??« @imjadejapic.twitter.com/OAG8Kgh57BGanguly believes that Jadeja is in the form of his life but can get even better."The last 6 months have been the best for Jadeja as a spinner over the last 4-5 years, hopefully he can carry on, and he is getting the experience. He has played a lot of Test cricket now and hopefully he can use that experience to get better. It is bound to happen when you have been around for 4-5 years and you know you are going to play Test matches. Jadeja has been backed by MS Dhoni, he has been backed by selectors and has been backed by Virat Kohli so he has everything going for him and he has bowled well," Ganguly said. (Australian media compares Kohli to Trump)BEST AVG AT HOME IN TESTS (100+ WKTS):Former Aussie skipper Michael Clarke too hailed Jadeja for his heroics in the Ranchi Test that ended in a draw.