Khalistan Commando Force member wanted in 75 cases arrested.
 A 51-year-old alleged member of the Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) was arrested on Monday from south Delhis Mahipalpur. A country-made pistol and four cartridges were allegedly found on him.Police said the arrested man, Gursewak Singh aka Babla, was reportedly in the process of establishing KCFs base in Delhi with the help of some gangs of autolifters and robbers. By committing bank and ATM robberies in Delhi, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana with the Delhis criminals, Babla was reportedly planning to raise funds to carry out terror activities in Delhi and Punjab, police said.Babla was under pressure from his handler, KCF chief Paramjeet Singh Panjwar, to strike against India and revive their outfits presence in Delhi and Punjab. Panjwar is presently based in Pakistan and running anti-India activities allegedly with Pakistans intelligence agency ISIs help, said a crime branch officer. Praveer Ranjan, joint commissioner of police (crime branch), said Babla was a close aide of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, who was killed 1984 by the Army in Operation Blue Star. Babla has spent more than 26 years, half of his life, in various jails in different cases, said the joint CP.Police claimed he was previously involved in over 50 cases of terrorist activities, murder of police officials and police informers, and dacoities and robberies in police stations, banks, shops in Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the Punjab insurgency in the 1980s. Ranjan said that Babla was wanted by the special cell, Delhi Polices anti-terror squad, in a case when he had escaped from the custody of the Punjab police while being produced at the Tis Hazari Court in Delhi in 2004. A case was registered at the Subzi Mandi police station and the probe was handed over to the special cell. Babla was wanted by us (Delhi Police) in that case and the court had declared him a proclaimed offender, said Ranjan, adding he had escaped again from Punjab police custody at Bhilwara railway station in Rajasthan in 1986.According to the joint CP, Bablas arrest came following information that he would come to Mahipalpur area to meet some criminals with whom he was planning to commit bank and ATM robberies in the city. Our team laid a trap and caught Babla from near Shiv Murti on NH-8 with a pistol and four rounds, Ranjan said adding Babla was also in touch with Jagtar Singh Hawara and other top leaders of Sikh militant groups who are lodged in different jails.A native of Ludhiana in Punjab, DCP Bhisham Singh said, Babla joined Bhindranwale-led militant group in 1982, almost two years after his elder brother Swaran Singh became a militant. 