I might take Ashwin's advice and hit him on head, says Starc.
The ongoing four-Test series between India and Australia has been acrimonious with players from both sides trading verbal blows but Australian pacer Mitchell Starc's latest comments could send relations between the two teams spiralling down further. (Johnson, Warne take a dig at Virat Kohli's Team India after Ranchi draw)Also watch:Cheteshwar Pujara is definitely India's wall: Michael Clarke to India TodayThe injury-prone Starc had to return home after Australia were crushed in Bengaluru as India drew level following a heavy defeat in Pune. But the left-arm pacer, far from the maddening action in India, did not want to miss out on the banter and sledging that has dominated the series and took a nasty dig at star India off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin, promising to hit him on the head when he next visited Australia. (Inability to bowl us out will be hurting India, says Steven Smith)"I look forward to bowling to Ashwin in Australia. (I might) take his advice and hit him on the badge," Starc was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au. (Steve Smith says Peter Handscomb, Shaun Marsh repaid his faith)Starc's insensitive comments come on the back of a cheeky response by Ashwin, who had rubbed his forehead with a forefinger after dismissing the Aussie all-rounder during the visitors' failed run-chase at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium. (Virat Kohli alleges Australia of disrespecting team physio Patrick Farhart)As Australia stuttered and stumbled in their 188-run chase on a tricky Bengaluru pitch in the second Test, Ashwin, who had rocked the visitors with three wickets before tea, snuffed out the dangerous Starc. As part of the celebrations, Ashwin rubbed his forehead with his index finger. (Sunil Gavaskar says Virat Kohli missed a trick in Ranchi)For those of you wondering why Ashwin did that, here's a recap of what happened in India's second innings. Starc was bowling a fiery spell on Sunday and Abhinav Mukund was in the firing line. As it happened, a top-edge off his bat flew over his head for a six. It was then that Starc rubbed his forehead with his index finger.Ashwin was clearly standing up for a teammate and added insult to Starc's injury after a crucial blow. While India's players have been matured enough to leave the onfield rivalry behind, Starc's latest comments could pave the way for another controversy. In 2014, Australian batsman Phil Hughes was killed after being hit on the head by a bouncer. Ever since, there have been serious concerns after batsmen have copped blows on their headgear. Starc, in retrospection, might be embarrassed with his words. Australia, the pioneers of mental disintegration, have been clearly rattled by India's onslaught over the last two decades. In 2014, the likes of David Warner and Steve Smith were involved in some heated moments with Indian cricketers before Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma responded in kind. 