The rules of the Censor Board need to be revisited: Anupam.
Anupam Kher is known to have voiced his opinions on a series of issues, from the Kashmir unrest to demonetisation. Call it a "political opinion," and he corrects you - "It's my national opinion. My opinions are about my country. They are not representative of any political ideology. It's a very cliched thing to call any opinion about the country a political opinion."Many people believe that actors should stay away from talking about anything unrelated to films. In fact, if an actor has an opinion, especially one that is not popular, they get trolled. Kher tells IndiaToday.in, in an exclusive interview, "Acting is a part of my life, it's not my life. I'm an individual; I'm a citizen of this country, I'm a teacher, I'm a motivational speaker, I'm a writer, I'm a son. Just because everyone may not agree with me, doesn't mean I'll stop putting forth what I want to say. In life, you cannot make everyone happy. And you don't necessarily stop talking to those who don't agree with you. You have to, as a celebrity, learn the art of ignoring. Yes, of course, you get upset and unhappy sometimes. But it's alright, I have been in this business for a long time."While B-Towners from Shah Rukh Khan to Aamir Khan had expressed their concern that India was becoming increasingly intolerant, Anupam Kher had begged to differ. But when Sanjay Leela Bhansali is thrashed and his Padmavati sets are attacked for allegedly distorting the glorious Rajput history, does it not smack of intolerance? The actor says that "it is very unfortunate," but not does think intolerance is the reason."I think the media gives it great importance. The problem is that if a bunch of 10 people doing something like this gets nationally covered, then they know that this is how they will get noticed... But on a level of what they have done, it's absolutely not right. It should not have happened. Nobody can dictate what should be made and what should not be made," he emphasises.Anupam Kher, who was the censor chief from 2003-04, also said that the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) rules need to be revisited. "The rules were written in 1952. The present government had appointed a committee headed by Shyam Benegal. I don't know what happened to the recommendations. They need to be implemented. Rules toh ban jaate hai, unko implement nahi kiya jaata," the actor said.Anupam Kher will be seen next in Naam Shabana, which is scheduled to release on March 31. The film also stars Taapsee Pannu, Akshay Kumar and Manoj Bajpayee. 