I would marry Shah Rukh as I love his bungalow: Karan Johar.
Shah Rukh Khan, Karan Johar and Alia Bhatt made sure they spiced up Day 2 of the India Today Conclave 2017 in the best way possible. On Saturday (March 18), all people present at the Conclave got a taste of Karan Johar's wit, Alia Bhatt's refreshing take on life and Shah Rukh Khan's lessons in romancing women.While Karan Johar did not stop at anything and had a freewheeling chat with moderator Koel Purie Rinchet, Alia Bhatt shared lessons from her fathee Mahesh Bhatt on the stage. And as for Shah Rukh Khan, from telling people what his association with Amitabh Bachchan has been like over the years, to saying why he now had lady bodyguards, King Khan was at his candid best. Amitabh Bachchan, who was supposed to have shared the stage with Shah Rukh, for a session called Unforgettables: The Dream Makers, Lessons from the Spotlight, couldn't attend the event because Aishwarya Rai Bachchan's father Krishnaraj Rai passed away that day.Here's looking back at the best of the India Today Conclave 2017.KARAN JOHARI like being trolledSpeaking about trolled, insulted and abused on social media, Karan Johar said that he is a complete sadist and that he likes to hear abuses. "It started with anger, went on to indifference, and now I look forward to them," Karan Johar said about his reaction to abuses.On Kangana Ranaut's statements on Koffee With KaranKaran Johar happily accepted that he is the flag-bearer of nepotism and that is the movie mafia, like Kangana Ranaut accused him of being on the sets of Koffee With Karan. However, he also added that he did not understand what Kangana Ranaut meant when she said that their individual ideas of poverty are different.I would marry Shah Rukh KhanWhen given a choice to love, marry and hook up with one of the following: Shah Rukh Khan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Sidharth Malhotra, he said he would marry Shah Rukh Khan because he loves his bungalow. However, he chose to kill both Aishwarya and Sidharth because in his own words, "I don't want to answer this question."I'm the mother of my childrenWhen asked who would be his choice as the mother of his children, Karan replied, "I am the mother of my children." A while later, he said, "I am more of a mother than I am a father."WATCH THE BEST OF KARAN JOHAR'S SESSION HEREALIA BHATTOn dumb jokesI look at in two ways - I'm either relevant or irrelevant. If you're making a joke about me, I'm relevant. So why should I be upsetThere is always someone better than you, no matter how brilliant you areI don't feel I have achieved anything. I have reached a certain stage, but i feel like I am doing. I feel grateful but I don't feel I have achieved. You have to walk the tight rope and do your best. Hard work will get you at a lot of places. Being the first member of your fan club won't get you anywhere.WATCH THE BEST OF ALIA BHATT'S SESSION HERESHAH RUKH KHANIt's better not to say shut upYou can ask people to shut up sometimes or behave badly at the Wankhede Stadium. Nowadays I think it's better not to say Shut Up on social media, you get capital letters - SHUT THE F*** UP, GET OUT OF MY COUNTRY. You can afford a padded room where the sound doesn't go out. Go and shout there, come back happy. I'm being a liar. I'm an actor - I can lie, rightDifficult explaining scratches on my body