Australian fans dislike Kohli as much as Jardine: Dean Jones.
Virat Kohli is the "head of the snake". This is how Australia spinner Nathan Lyon described the India captain in the second Test in Bengaluru. Kohli's aggressive nature on the field has earned him admiration in the cricketing world but Australians also hate him.Former Australia batsman Dean Jones in his column for The Sydney Morning Herald explained how "Kohli is almost as disliked as English captain Douglas Jardine".The second Test of the series became a hot topic when the captains of both teams Virat Kohli and Steve Smith traded blows at each other. Kohli almost called Australians "cheats" when Smith, to everyone's surprise, tried to take help with DRS from his team's dressing room after he was trapped leg before by Umesh Yadav. Kohli warned the Aussies for "crossing the line" then two boards jumped in and backed their captains before International Cricket Council put an end to the controversy by not pressing charges against either of the players."Kohli is now Australia's No. 1 enemy or the "head of the snake", as Nathan Lyon has put it. The Australian boys are quite prepared to take it up to him and this series has been compulsive viewing. This is what Test match cricket is about. It's the same when we play England for the Ashes or when India meet Pakistan," Jones wrote in his column. (Ranchi Test: Kohli bats at usual No.4 but falls cheaply again)"Test cricket is at its best when there is an edge to it. With the extra interest from fans and the media in a big series such as this, the contest seems to have become personal, very personal," he added.Jones further praised Kohli for his work ethics but said the Indian cricket's poster boy "loves getting into hot spots on the field"."I am an unabashed Kohli fan. I commentate all around the world and I love watching this kid bat and lead his team. He is such an interesting character. Away from the cricket, he is quite a humble kid. Always polite, and always asking questions on how he is batting and what I am up to. He just loves the game and the challenges that go with it." (Maxwell mocks Kohli's injury)'VILLAINOUS AS JARDINE'"Kohli believes in hard work and that he can do anything on a cricket field. He loves getting into hot spots on the field to make sure he is in his opponents' face. Kohli is the only captain I know who pumps up the crowd, asking them for their support. He knows the importance of the Indian fans' input and how it can help his team's performance. He doesn't just want 11 Indian players in the Australian faces, he demands the same from the 30,000-strong Indian crowds. Make this ground the most hostile environment the Australians will experience. It's no different to what the MCG crowds have given to opposition teams.""So why don't  Australian fans like him? I feel he is almost as disliked as villainous English captain Douglas Jardine, who started the Bodyline series in 1932-33. Is this what needs to happen for Australia and India to build up their rivalry? If so, I have no problem with it. I love the aggression that's being produced in the media and from the fans. Even the respective CEOs from each country have offered their 10 cents' worth. It's game on," he wrote.WATCH SPORTS WRAPJones also tipped Australian cricketers, who are part of the Test series in India, how to tackle Kohli's "in-your-face attitude".