Kohli is already batting in nets: Umesh Yadav.
Recovering from a shoulder injury, India skipper Virat Kohli missed the start of day two proceedings on the field as his deputy Ajinkya Rahane led the team against Australia in the third Test in Ranchi. (Scorecard)Umesh Yadav confirmed in a post-match press conference after the second day play that Kohli is fit to play and is all set to come back. He said, "Bandage will obviously remain after an injury. But I think he's fit to play. The way he's practising at the nets it seems he's all set to come back." (Ranchi Test, Day 2: Key Highlights)A grimacing Kohli had departed the field on day one clutching his right shoulder after he landed awkwardly near the mid-on boundary rope in his dive to save a Peter Handscomb boundary. Kohli was seen joining his teammates at the warm-up before the start of play and had a long discussion with coach Anil Kumble and selector Devang Gandhi."Jadeja is going through the best phase of his career"India's Ravindra Jadeja made two important points with his seventh five-wicket Test haul on Friday - that he is not in the team just to play second fiddle to spin colleague Ravichandran Ashwin and that he does not need dustbowls to succeed.If India are still in the third Test against Australia, it is due largely to the indefatiguable left-arm spinner who came up with a lion-hearted effort to restrict the tourists. (India vs Australia, 3rd Test, Day 2: As it happened)Jadeja bowled more than one third of his team's total overs, claimed 5/124 and effected a spectacular run-out with his back to the stumps to wrap up the Australia innings.The 28-year-old became the leading wicket-taker in the four-Test series, overtaking off-spinner Ashwin, who has taken only one in the match. (Virat Kohli joins team in warm-up, but does not field on Day 2)Jadeja is level on points with Ashwin at the top of the ICC rankings for Test bowlers and the bearded all-rounder with tousled hair proved why."Jaddu is going through the best phase of his career," Yadav said after the second day's play."I think Jaddu is the kind of bowler whose bowling style suits all kind of wickets. The kind of variation he has, he never moves away and bowls tirelessly at the same spot. (Ranchi Test: Vijay, KL Rahul lead India's charge after Australia's 451)"If he gets the tiniest of rough, he knows where to pitch it. He is getting the reward for his accuracy."On a track which has not offered prodigious turn or uneven bounce yet, Jadeja's exploits drew praise from Australian all-rounder Glenn Maxwell. (Gallery)"He was hitting a consistent spot where, if it skidded on straight it was hitting the stumps, and if it spun you were a chance to nick it," said Maxwell, who scored his maiden test century on Friday."It was just an awkward length. It took him a while to find that length against us. We were able to find singles and manipulate the field a bit yesterday afternoon but today he was pretty accurate."