Shamshaan won over Kabristan in UP: Owaisi.
AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has termed the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election results as "an exclusive verdict" saying that "in the battle of Kabristan and Shamshaan, Shamshaan won over Kabristan."Speaking at the India Today Conclave 2017 in Mumbai, Owaisi today said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi tried to polarise the election by referring to graveyard and cremation ground."The Uttar Pradesh Assembly election was an exclusive verdict. It was the verdict for development of some and not for inclusive development. In the battle of Kabristan and Shamshaan in Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, Shamshaan won over Kabristan," Owaisi said.Responding to Owaisi's charge, Jammu and Kashmir Social Welfare Minister Sajjad Lone said, "You can't question winning in a democracy. I don't agree that it was an exclusive election verdict in Uttar Pradesh."If you accept democracy, you accept winning in election, you can't question that, Sajjad Lone said.BJP Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe countered Owaisi by claiming that large number of Muslims voted for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh.We have had spiritual democracy. Imposing one ideology or thought is not possible in India. India is a vibrant democracy. Nobody can destroy that, Sahasrabudde said.COUNTER-NARRATIVE TO CHECK BJPDuring the India Today Conclave session on 'The Great Debate: A Million Mutinies, What makes an Indian', some of the panelists underscored the need for the Opposition to have a counter-narrative to check the BJP.Noted sociologist Dipankar Gupta said, "The Opposition needs to have an alternative discourse not an anti-BJP narrative to check the rise of the BJP. An alternative point of view is needed to counter the BJP," adding, "It could be Congress or without Congress."'RAHUL NO COMPETITION TO MODI'Gupta further said that as the principal Opposition party the Congress needs to reinvent itself.Responding to a query about Rahul Gandhi, Gupta said, "Congress identified in Punjab with Amarinder Singh and it won the election. In Uttar Pradesh, Congress identified with Gandhi and it lost. In Gandhi background the Congress was soundly defeated while in Punjab they won. Rahul (Gandhi) is no competition to (Narendra) Modi in providing leadership."Agreeing with Gupta, Owaisi said, "Days of dynastic politics are over. You will have to prove yourself that you work for people."On the question of having an alternative narrative, Owaisi said, "If you want to defeat Modi, don't become junior Modi. Create an alternative viewpoint."Among the participants in the debate was noted musician TM Krishna, who had questioned Finance Minister Arun Jaitley when he criticised some protesters at JNU and Delhi by calling their agitation as 'alliance of subversion'. ICSSR chairman Sukhadeo Thorat, who is former UGC chairman and professor emeritus JNU, said, "The idea of India is defined by constitution. It says that India is secular and socialist."The governments supported by majority population or religious community are cause for worry in India, Thorat said.  