Time will come when Kohli will score, Smith won't: Ganguly.
Former India captain Sourav Ganguly spoke exclusively to India Today after Australia dominated India on Day 1 of the third and penultimate Test match in Ranchi on Wednesday. Australia reached 299/4 at stumps with captain Steve Smith (117*) and Glenn Maxwell (82*) unbeaten at the crease. (Ranchi Test: Smith, Maxwell lead Australian domination over India)CLICK TO WATCH FULL INTERVIEWGanguly spoke at length on the Smith's magnificent hundred, on what should be India's gameplan on Day 2 in Ranchi and why Virat Kohli's loss in form does not bother him too much. (SCORECARD)Excerpts:Rohan Sen: Australia dominated proceedings on a flat pitch in Ranchi. Your assessment of the day's play?Sourav Ganguly: I think the pitch played superbly that's what you expect on Day 1 of a Test match in India and Australia dominated. Good toss to win which is always the case in India. Australia had the best part of the surface to play on. (Ranchi Test: Virat Kohli advised 10 days rest by doctors)Rohan: We finally got to see some action on the cricket field as supposed to off it with the DRS controversy last week?Ganguly: That's happened and that's part and parcel of the sport. I wouldn't pay too much importance on that. Virat Kohli said at the press conference yesterday that "it's game time and let's move on". That's exactly what mature people do. They've moved on.Steve Smith has moved on, what a wonderful hundred he's got today. In the centre of all the talk about his DRS reviews and the way he looked at the dressing room. But he's answered everyone with a Test match hundred. (Steve Smith hits back hard after ugly DRS spat with 19th Test hundred)Rohan: What is Steve Smith doing differently to Virat Kohli? Why is Kohli not able to score runs while Smith has already slammed two hundreds?Ganguly: Virat Kohli will score I think it's just one of those times when one person gets the runs and the other person doesn't get runs. There will be a time when Virat Kohli will score and Steve Smith will not score runs. Steve Smith likes batting against India to be honest. Four hundreds on the 2014-15 series in Australia and then two hundreds here along with the 2015 World Cup semi-final hundred. He loves Indian bowling you have got to give him credit. His records phenomenal. 19 Test hundreds in just 53 Test matches that's a fantastic record.Rohan: India's intensity dropped in the final session of play on Day 1. Do you think that is because Kohli was not on the field?Ganguly: These are after thoughts to be honest. You have got to give credit to the way Maxwell and Smith batted. Yes the captain makes a difference but if he's injured you know then Ajinkya Rahane takes on. But you've got to give credit to the way Maxwell and Smith batted.Rohan: Michael Clarke had recently said that David Warner should call Sourav and take tips on how to bat against spinners. Where is Warner going wrong?