PM Modi is not authoritative: J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti.
Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti has rebuffed the allegation against Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he is authoritarian in his approach.Participating in a debate at India Today Conclave 2017, Mehbooba said, "I have met Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few times and I have found that he is open to ideas. He is not authoritative.""Contrary to perception and allegations by some PM Modi is not centralised. He wants to make it true federal system in the country. He has the moral authority to do it," Mehbooba said.Mehbooba was in discussion with Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis.Mehbooba also said that the Centre and the state government both need to think about phasing out AFSPA from the Kashmir Valley.Inviting the businessmen and investors from Mumbai in Kashmir Valley, Mehbooba said, "Kashmir is the safest place for women even when encounters are taking place. Come not only to invest. Come to Kashmir with your families."FADNAVIS AS DEFENCE MINISTERTaking part in the India Today Conclave 2017 in Mumbai, Devendra Fadnavis kept everyone guessing about him being moving to Delhi as a Union Minister.Responding to a query about the speculation that he could be the next Defence Minister, Fadnavis said, "India Today Conclave has shifted from New Delhi to Mumbai. Why do you want me to move from Mumbai to Delhi"But, Fadnavis immediately added, "I am a true soldier of party. Whatever our Prime Minister and party president tells me to do, I am ready to do.""Right now I have a job on hand. I am a Chief Minister now. I have Maharashtra on my agenda."'ONLY FARMERS DON'T COMMIT SUICIDE'Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asserted that his state no longer belonged to BIMARU state after registering double digit GDP growth rate in the last seven years.Chouhan tried to play down the issue of farmers' suicide in Madhya Pradesh saying, "Only farmers are not committing suicide. Students and businessmen are also committing suicide.""All suicides by the farmers are not due to loan or crop failure. There are other reasons also for farmers' suicide. We remain committed to ameliorate the living conditions of farmers," Chouhan said.THE GST QUESTIONResponding to a query about will July 1 deadline for GST be met, Fadnavis said, "Yes, I am confident. The deadline will be met. GST council has approved it. If political disruption is the motive then I can't say anything.""GST will create a common market. When VAT was introduced, there were concerns and apprehensions were expressed. VAT was a barrier regime. Now we are shifting to non-barrier regime. Barriers were artificially created," Fadnavis said."We are manufacturing state. As a big manufacturing state, we will lose something. But, at the same time being a big state, we are a big consumer state and there we will gain something," said Fadnavis."If some states lose more, then we must think that we are one nation. If some backward state gains and some better doing states are losing out, they should be happy. The GST will bring level playing field for everyone. Every state will gain with GST," Fadnavis added.APPRECIATE REGIONAL ASPIRATIONSJammu and Kashmir CM Mehbooba Mufti once again defended Article 370. She said every state has a unique situation. Maharashtra has Article 371 there, Jammu and Kashmir has Article 371, she said."You cannot do away with the regional aspirations. You have seen it after Mandal commission report. You have seen groups of Yadavs, rise of Mayawati and others," Mehbooba said."For us in Kashmir, India is not a country. It is a universe for us. It is full of diversity, different aspirations and all co-exist. It is the beauty of India," Mehbooba added.Mehbooba said that the Centre has been responsive about the needs of Jammu and Kashmir. "Whenever I have met Union Ministers, be it (Nitin) Gadkari or (Prakash) Javadekar, they have always listened to us and supported us. We have been given whatever we needed," Mehbooba said at India Today Conclave 2017.However, she was quick to add that in cases of international treaties if the states are affected then need to be consulted. DEMONETISATION FACTORTalking about public anguish over demonetisation, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that he did not see any.Chouhan said, "I go out to people every day. I did not see anyone complaining about demonetisation. No one showed anger.