I am being framed, ready for narco test: Gayatri Prajapati.
"This is a conspiracy against me. I am ready for narco test," said former Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prajapati who was arrested  in Lucknow earlier today for allegedly raping a woman and attempting to rape her minor daughter."I demand that the woman and me both should be put through narco test. I am being framed by rivals but I have full faith in country's judicial system," Prajapati told reporters shortly after a Lucknow court sent him to 14-day judicial custody.Prajapati, who was absconding since February 27, was arrested from Aashiyana area of Lucknow today. Six persons named in the FIR against the 49-year-old SP leader have already been been picked up by the police.Police had yesterday interrogated the SP leader's two sons and nephew to get some inputs regarding his whereabouts.WHAT IS THE CASEA 35-year-old Samajwadi Party worker alleged that Prajapati repeatedly raped her with his accomplices at his official residence for two years. She has also accused Prajapati of sexually assaulting her minor daughter. She accused that the former minister threatened and even blackmailed her not to report the matter to police. Since July last year, the victim has been running pillar to post for justice but alleged she was being threatened to take back the complaint. The victim claimed that she had even approached the DIG but got no support.SHELTERED BY POLITICAL MASTERSIronically, the victim got no support from the central government. She even approached the Home Ministry in Delhi to seek shelter but got no help. Finally, she approached the Supreme Court and an FIR was lodged on February 18 on the directions of the apex court. Even after the FIR was lodged against him, Gayatri Prajapati addressed public meetings and campaigned during Assembly election in Amethi. Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav too addressed a public rally in Amethi in support of Prajapati. Akhilesh claimed that Gayatri was a victim of political vendetta and questioned the intention of the victim. The UP Police was found wanting in action on this matter. PRAJAPATI BOOKED ON SUPREME COURT'S ORDERPrajapati was booked on a Supreme Court directive and an FIR was lodged on February 17 against the minister and six others for allegedly gang-raping a woman and alleged attempt to rape her minor daughter.The apex court had asked the UP Police to submit an action taken report regarding the incidents in eight weeks.A Look Out notice was also issued against him as also a Non-Bailable Warrant. His passport too has been impounded.Airports across the country had been alerted about the possibility of Prajapati trying to flee the country.In the just-concluded Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Prajapati had lost to BJP from Amethi, the seat he held.WATCH: Rape accused former SP leader Gayatri Prajapati arrested from Lucknow