I'll be co-producing Hollywood films very soon: Dhanush.
Dhanush is juggling with multiple hats and projects. Busy promoting his forthcoming release Velaiilla Pattadhari (VIP 2) across the length and breadth of the country, he has also wrapped up work on his maiden Hollywood film The Extraordinary Journey of the Fakir. Talking about the experience of venturing into a new industry and language, Dhanush told Mumbai Mirror: ?I just finished one English film and I believe a script should convince me to take off from one industry to another and do complete justice to it. It should have meaning. I wanted to wait for something like Kundan (his character in Raanjhanaa) and Shamitabh.?The Extraordinary Journey Of The Fakir shoot wrapped@dhanushkraja heading #home & Big #VIP2Promotions will begin this week ? pic.twitter.com/JVRDMl8tXB? VIP Official (@VIPoffl) July 19, 2017Talking about his English film, directed by Ken Scott and based on the bestselling novel, he said, ?I play the lead character, Ajatashatru. He is a street magician. It?s his extraordinary journey as he ventures into the real world to figure it out. It?s told in a funny, entertaining way. The script has a lot of heart, humanity and so much to give to society. I have earlier said no to three-four English films but this film made me say ?yes?,? says Dhanush, whose VIP 2 is gearing up for release in August.Dhanush is a successful producer too. Does he plan to produce Hollywood films? ?I will be co-producing Hollywood films very soon. Talks are on. We are discussing a few scripts and collaborations but it?s at a very early stage right now,? he said, adding it?s a great time to be doing international films. ?The world is shrinking and everyone is majorly interested in Indian films now. They are watching our films, they are hiring Indian stars and they like our song-and-dance format. If you notice they are even adapting them in their films. It?s a very healthy change and I think it?s the best time for me to do something like this.?Follow @htshowbiz for more