Kohli willing to put DRS controversy behind him.
Virat Kohli might have been animated and angry after Steve Smith's decision to look towards the Australian dressing room to seek assistance for the DRS in the Bengaluru Test but the Indian captain is willing to put the entire controversy behind him. (Clarke happy India, Australia resolved DRS controversy)(Also watch: Virat Kohli willing to put DRS controversy behind him)Smith was hit on the pads by an Umesh Yadav delivery during a crucial juncture of Australia's chase against India in the second Test of the four-match series. Umpire Nigel Llong upheld a loud appeal by India. (Test of maturity for Kohli and Smith in Ranchi)The Australian captain consulted his partner at the other end, Peter Handscomb before looking at the support staff. Kohli rushed to the umpire who intervened immediately and sent Smith on his way. (Hope Dhoni comes to watch the Test in Ranchi: Kumble)Later, in the post-match press conference, Kohli lashed out at his Australian counterpart and rubbished his brain fade excuse by pointing out that the visitors had tried to seek external help for the DRS a couple of times before. (Clarke, Ganguly expect aggressive cricket from Kohli, Smith)The incident threatened to snowball into a major incident between two of the most powerful cricketing nations in the world with both BCCI and Cricket Australia issuing statements in support of their captains. However, the two boards, after a joint meeting, decided to bury the issue after the International Cricket Council decided not to take any action against either Smith or Kohli. (Kumble says India won't curb aggression)On the eve of the penultimate Test, Kohli has come out to say that his team would be focused on the cricket and added that bygones should be bygones."A lot has been given into the DRS incident I feel and it's time we focus on the remainder of the series. "It's honestly what I feel because a lot of cricket is to be played and it shouldn't happen in bad taste. What's happened in Bengaluru happened in Bengaluru. "We are in Ranchi and we should look forward to tomorrow. Both teams have moved ahead from Bengaluru and I think the focus should back onto the series because the priority here is cricket," Kohli told the media on Wednesday.Kohli was understandably furious after the incident and stopped short of using the word 'cheat' after India had wrapped up victory by 75 runs in Bengaluru to level the series 1-1. However, he said did not regret his angry lashing and added for good measure that he always weighed his words."I think about what I say. I don't regret anything I say but it's very important not to be stupid and go on the same things in a daily basis. 