Reddit user claims AIB's Rohan molested her, later denies it.
All India Bakchod funnyman Rohan Joshi was accused of molesting and sexually harassing a woman in an anonymous Reddit  post earlier today. Less than two hours later, the same person replaced that post with one that called Joshi a "great guy". What was the motive behind such a move? Read on their post to find out:Whoever this person is, disregard of what gender they come from, has single-handedly reduced a serious issue like sexual harassment to a joke. As he/she points out, the intention behind the original post (accusing Joshi of molestation) was to "expose" the woman who accused TVF CEO of sexually harassing her.Well, good job, buddy! You tricked us into believing that you were touched, groped and felt up against your consent. Of course, this is an issue that should be toyed with. Very, well done!THE ORIGINAL POSTThe Reddit user, under the pseudonym 'shadenfreude557', had claimed in the now-removed post that Joshi had tried to forcefully kiss 'her', then verbally abused and groped 'her breast' when 'she' pushed him away. It further said that they "couldn't share this experience with anyone because of the fear that no one will believe", given his celebrity status.This post was taken down less than an hour later. JOSHI'S RESPONSEWhen Twitter users drew Rohan's attention to the original Reddit post, he denied the accusation and challenged the claim saying he is "open to any investigation about this by cops or by anyone at all".@lordoftheshibs Wow. Kucch bhi. Literally. Happily open to any investigation about this by cops or by anyone at allJoshi also tweeted: I would like to state categorically that this did not happen. I am open and willing, and even urge @MumbaiPolice to investigate thisBut any competent authority who wants to investigate is welcome to, and I encourage whoever wrote that to pursue the matter earnestly.When another Twitter user brought to Joshi's attention the new Reddit post, claiming he is a "great guy", and rubbishing the sexual harassment claims, Joshi just 'sighed'. Sigh. I have no idea what is going on anymore. I think I've had enough internet for the week. https://t.co/XzggjLBlqfI still welcome any investigation, for the record. Feel free to expand it into an investigation on whether I threatened anyone even https://t.co/AxeKJMECTQTHE TVF MOLESTATION CASEThe case this blessed Reddit user was trying to expose as false is that of TVF CEO Arunabh Kumar, who has been accused of molesting multiple women.The case went viral on the social media after one former TVF employee shared her sexual harassment experience in a blog post on the Medium. As the post gained traction, a stream of charges came flooding in against Kumar with other women accusing Kumar of the same.So, our star Reddit user was trying to "expose" this anonymous woman, who posted her story under the name The Indian Fowler, by crying wolf about being sexually harassed. Smooth, eh?A word of advice, dear Reddit user. A sexual harassment case is not a football match; you don't pick your favourite side.  Also, we hope Rohan would not take this lightly and will slap a defamation case. 