Huma Qureshi slams body-shamers in new ad.
That Huma Qureshi is a class apart is known throughout the industry. Not only is she classy externally, she's actually classier on the inside. Huma was recently part of a big Indo-British movie called Viceroy's House that also starred Hugh Bonneville. In fact, she was also at the BRIT Awards this year for the same, but did you hear anyone make a big pump and show about it No, right That's class, right there.But that's besides the point. The point here is that Huma has faced a lot of negativity in the industry for being "different". She's a couple of sizes bigger than most actresses in Bollywood, and frankly, that's what makes her so beautiful and elegant. Some people, however, fail to see that. And Huma is making a point about exactly those people in a new ad she's starred in, and might we add, is looking super hot in:You keep trying to put me down .. say rubbish.. I will keep raising the bar #DownNaysayers #IShapeMyWorld @levis_in @levisA post shared by Huma Qureshi (@iamhumaq) on Mar 9, 2017 at 6:19am PSTAnd what Huma says in the ad has us all pumped and proud of our own bodies: "Being an actor is I think the most vulnerable space you can be in, everyone has an opinion. A lot of people make these sexist comments in passing every single day without realising the damage they're causing. Body shaming is as harmful as anything else; as an actor you just have to have a really thick hide. Someone wrote a really nasty review about the film I did, and they also said Huma Qureshi is 5 kilos too heavy to be a mainstream heroine. There are only two ways to deal with a bully, no, either you stop crossing paths  or you give it back to the bully, because ultimately bullies are just really, really insecure people who basically are projecting their own sense of self worth onto the outside world.Whoever I am today is because of the fact that I'm an outsider, because I don't fit in. Who wants to blend in when they can stand out I am Huma Qureshi and this is how I shape my world."  