Goa BJP MLAs pass resolution to make Parrikar CM.
Manohar Parrikar was today appointed the chief minister of Goa by the state's Governor, Mridula Sinha. Parrikar will step down from the post of Defence Minister. After garnering support from independent candidates and small parties, the BJP now claims the support of a total of 22 MLAs in Goa. Latest Developments:We met the Governor, expecting an invitation.Once we receive it,we will consult our colleagues and decide the date for swearing in: Parrikar pic.twitter.com/r3mpCAMLdpBJP HAS A PLAN?With some votes still to be counted, BJP president Amit Shah announced in New Delhi yesterday that the BJP was in a position to form government in Goa. This gave an idea that the BJP has a plan for Goa.READ| Goa Assembly Election 2017 Detailed ResultWhen the final tally was known, the Congress emerged as the single largest party with 17 seats in the 40-member Goa Assembly. The ruling BJP secured 13 seats, eight less than the 2012 Goa Assembly election.Chief Minister Lakshmikant Parsekar lost to Congress candidate Dayanand Sopte, who visited party office as a 'giant killer'.But, the BJP still claimed that it was in a position to form government. How?Sources in the BJP and political observers, both, are of the view that the answer lies in Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar.WHY PARRIKAR AGAIN?In the 40-seat Goa Assembly, a party or coalition requires support of 21 MLAs to form government. Chief Minister Parsekar has lost the election. He was anyway considered a weak candidate than his predecessor Parrikar. The final tally has 10 seats under the belt of non-BJP, non-Congress parties. The Maharashtra Gomantak Party has been a former ally of the BJP and during Parrikar's regime the two parties worked in harmony.Speaking to India Today MGP leader Sudin Dhawalikar said, "We have passed a resolution to support the BJP only if Manohar Parrikar is made the Chief Minister."WATCH| Assembly election results 2017: How counting day unfolded in GoaDhawalikar also said, "We have written a letter to (BJP president) Amit Shah to consider our request."Quite interestingly Dhawalikar claimed that other non-Congress players are also ready to support the BJP with Parrikar as CM. "I have also spoken to Goa Forward party and they too will support if Parrikar is made the Chief Minister. The NCP too is willing to join us," Dhawalikar told India Today.IS PARRIKAR WILLING?Late last night after the results were announced, Parrikar said, "In the situation of a fractured mandate, everyone is in the run to form the government. We are also there. If the BJP acts like a core group and brings together smaller parties, we can still give a stable government."Parrikar said exactly on the same lines as the MGP leader would tell India Today some 12 hours later.Parrikar went on to add, "BJP is in the best position to form the government. I am confident of getting necessary support."   