Things became difficult: Angelina on what led to her divorce.
In a sprawling interview with Vanity Fair, Angelina Jolie spoke, among other things, about how her life has changed post her split from husband Brad Pitt. ?I never woke up and thought, I really want to live a bold life. I just can?t do the other. It?s the same as I can?t make a casserole. I cannot sit still,? she said.The trouble began in the summer of 2016, when she was working on her new film, First They Killed My Father, scheduled to release, like Pitt?s last film, War Machine, on Netflix.Angelina Jolie opens up about putting her family first, life after Brad, health issues & her most personal film yet https://t.co/nKyf4dO8ls pic.twitter.com/WkXCgWR1PV? VANITY FAIR (@VanityFair) July 26, 2017?Things got bad,? Jolie said. ?I didn?t want to use that word. ... Things became ?difficult.??According to the interviewer, Jolie became ?slightly defensive? at the mention of the family?s globe-trotting lifestyle, ?which reportedly had been grating on Pitt.??(The lifestyle) was not in any way a negative,? she asserted. ?That was not the problem. That is and will remain one of the wonderful opportunities we are able to give our children. ... They?re six very strong-minded, thoughtful, worldly individuals. I?m very proud of them.?Jolie abruptly filed for divorce in September 2016, which was followed by months of custody battles, and mud-slinging. Earlier this year, it was mutually decided that no details of the proceedings would be made public.Brad Pitt arrives at the Los Angeles premiere of The Lost City of Z at the ArcLight Hollywood. 
							(Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP)
						While Pitt, in his own tell-all interview (to GQ Style in March), said that he had spent the next few weeks on friends? couches, Jolie and their six children moved into a rental property for nine months before settling into a new home.?It?s just been the hardest time, and we?re just kind of coming up for air. (This house) is a big jump forward for us, and we?re all trying to do our best to heal our family.?Jolie said that she took the step ?for the health of the family.? Pitt, meanwhile admitted to ?boozing too much.? He was also investigated for child abuse, after an incident aboard their private plane which compelled Jolie to take the ultimate step. He was cleared.Read | Brad Pitt?s first interview post Angelina Jolie split: Our family was ripped apartRead | Brad Pitt says he quit drinking, in therapy after split with Angelina JolieFollow @htshowbiz for more