Planning to move SC challenging Bihar govt formation: Lalu.
Less than 16 hours after he resigned from the post in a dramatic change of stance, Nitish Kumar took oath as the chief minister of Bihar for the sixth time today. BJP's Sushil Modi will be his deputy. Earlier, Lalu Prasad Yadav's Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) hit the streets across Bihar in protest against Nitish Kumar's decision to dump Mahagathbandhan for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Nitish Kumar walked out of the 20-month-old grand alliance on Wednesday evening bringing a dramatic end to days of political uncertainty in the state.FROM INDIA TODAY MAGAZINE: NITISH KUMAR - GIANT SLAYERMoments after Nitish tendered his resignation to Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi, he was once again at the Governor's House later in the night to claim support of 132 MLAs of the JD-U and the BJP. He will have to take the floor test in the Assembly on Friday (July 28).LATEST UPDATES: Congratulations to @NitishKumar ji & @SushilModi ji. Looking forward to working together for Biharâ??s progress & prosperity.Scene outside Raj Bhawan in Patna; preparations underway as Nitish Kumar set to be sworn in as Bihar Chief Minister for the 6th time today pic.twitter.com/0R5knvMC0LPatna: Vehicles stuck in traffic jam as RJD supporters block Mahatma Gandhi Setu, connecting north Bihar with Patna #NitishKumarpic.twitter.com/euXG3ZkrLETEJASHWI DECIDES TO FIGHT  In no mood to give up without a fight, Tejashwi Yadav earlier said the RJD being the single largest party in the state would stake claim to form the government."Have sought appointment with the governor. Will stake claim to form government as the the single largest party. Will also get the support of JD(U) MLAs who have won after defeating BJP candidates," Tejashwi tweeted.However, the numbers are stacked against him. The JD-U, BJP, their allies and supporting independent MLAs together account for 132 seats in the 243-member Bihar Assembly, 10 more than the magic figure of 122.RJD has 81 MLAs and even if Congress with 27 MLAs and CPI-ML (03) decide to back Tejashwi, their number would add up to 110.Reacting sharply to the governor inviting Nitish Kumar for the swearing-in at 10 am after giving him an appointment for 11 am, Tejashwi said RJD would stage a dharna outside Raj Bhavan against it."Governor gv us time of 11AM and now suddenly has asked NDA for oath ceremony at 10AM. Why so much hurry & rush Mr. Honest & Moral?" he tweeted well past midnight.ALSO READ:Nitish Kumar resigns, but not really: Bihar Game of Thrones starring BJP isolates Lalu Yadav?Trusted Nitish Kumar blindly but he betrayed me, says Lalu PrasadCall of my soul: 10 quotes of Nitish Kumar after his resignation as Bihar Chief Minister