Only 2 Uttar Pradesh CMs have completed full terms in 65 yrs.
BSP chief Mayawati holds the distinction of being the first Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh who completed her full term. Before 2012 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, no Chief Minister had completed his/her full term in office in Uttar Pradesh.The first Uttar Pradesh Assembly election was held in 1951-52, when the Congress won 388 seats. READ| UP Assembly election 2017: Exit polls predict massive BJP win. Who could be the CM?1952-1967: 5 CHIEF MINISTERSThe first Assembly was unique in the sense that the total number of seats was 346 with 83 constituencies having two representatives- called double-member seats those days.Govind Ballabh Pant was sworn in as the Chief Minister. But, in less than three years, Pant was incorporated into the Union cabinet. Sampurnand became the next CM. He continued in office for over five years but interrupted by Assembly election in 1957.The Congress kept changing Chief Ministers. In all Uttar Pradesh saw five CMs in 15 years including the first woman Chief Minister in Sucheta Kriplani.1967: FIRST NON-CONGRESS CMA series of change in Chief Minister's Office in Uttar Pradesh saw Congress tally plummet to 199 falling short of majority in the 425-seat Assembly for the first time. An alliance was stitched among Bharatiya Kranti Dal of Jat leader Charan Singh, Jana Sangh, CPI(M), Republican Party of India, Swatantra Party and Praja Socialist Party. As many as 22 Independents MLAs extended support to the alliance, which put Charan Singh on the chair of Chief Minister. Charan Singh government lasted less than one year and the Assembly was dissolved after one year of President's Rule.ALSO WATCH:1970-77: PERIOD OF UNCERTAINTYFresh election was called in 1969. The Congress still remained short of majority by 2 seats. It won 211 in 425-seat Assembly. Charan Singh's BKD won 98 and Jana Sangh secured 49 seats.In next eight years, Uttar Pradesh saw four stints of President's Rule and six Chief Ministers including Charan Singh, who stayed in the office for little over nine months.1977-80: JANATA EXPERIMENTRiding on anti-Indira Gandhi wave, Janata Party swept the parliamentary polls held after national emergency was withdrawn in 1977. Janata Party won thunderous majority in the Lok Sabha. It responded by dissolving all the state Assemblies where Congress had majority.Fresh election was held in Uttar Pradesh. The Janata Party won 352 of 425 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh but infighting set in the party over the choice of CM candidate with Chandra Shekhar and Charan Singh factions shooting down names proposed by either camps.READ| AajTak exit poll results: Why Akhilesh, Rahul failed in Uttar PradeshFinally Ram Naresh Yadav was made the CM. Janata Party had to find another candidate in Banarasi Das in less than two years. Janata experiment, anyway, failed in three years. Elections were held in 1980 for the Lok Sabha. Indira Gandhi stormed back to power. It was now her turn to dismiss Janata Party governments in states.1980-88: CONGRESS CULTURE OF REPLACING CMsAssembly election was held in 1980 and the Congress won 309 of 425 seats. Raja of Manda Vishwanath Pratap Singh was made the Chief Minister. But, the Congress reverted to its practice of replacing Chief Ministers.The eight years gave six CMs to Uttar Pradesh before VP Singh revolted against the Congress leadership in the wake of Bofors scandal. 1989-2007: MANDAL, AYODHYA AND A CM OF 48 HOURSWhen elections were held in 1989 VP Singh's Janata Dal emerged as the single largest party and formed the government with the outside help from the BJP.Mulayam Singh Yadav, who had been a minister in Janata government in Uttar Pradesh, was sworn in as the Chief Minister. Soon, Mandal and Ayodhya took centrestage in Uttar Pradesh's politics in general and elections in particular. Caste lines became sharper. OBCs, Dalits and Muslims were identified as en bloc voting communities.READ| Uttar Pradesh exit poll results: How Modi-powered BJP bettered its strike rate as election progressedIn 1993, the political alliance of Dalit-OBC was formed as BSP's Mayawati and SP's Mulayam Singh Yadav joined hands against the upper caste dominance in Uttar Pradesh. The tie-up did not last long and in 1995 Mayawati became the first Dalit Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh with support from the BJP.The period was full of instability witnessing 10 Chief Ministers and three President's Rule. One of the Chief Ministers, Jagdambika Pal of the Congress (he is now a BJP MP in the Lok Sabha) lasted only 48 hours.2007: PATH-BREAKING ELECTIONThe Uttar Pradesh Assembly election of 2007 proved to be a path-breaking election as it elected a government and a Chief Minister, who completed her tenure for the first time in Uttar Pradesh.In 2012, Mayawati became the first CM to go to the polls after completing her full-term. But, the people of Uttar Pradesh, having not seen such a thing in the past, voted her out.