Clarke endorses Kohli's stance on Smith's DRS controversy.
Steve Smith is in the middle of a raging controversy after he looked at the dressing room for help with the Decision Review System. While Virat Kohli stopped short of calling it an act of cheating, former cricketers have also lashed out at the Australian captain. (Take action against Steve Smith for infringing DRS rules: Sourav Ganguly to Aaj Tak)CLICK TO WATCH FULL VIDEOSmith was out leg before for 28 in the tourists' second innings off Umesh Yadav that stayed low and struck him above his left boot in front of middle stump during their 75-run defeat that levelled the series at 1-1. (Virat Kohli warns Australia: There are certain lines which shouldn't be crossed)Smith and partner Peter Handscomb were then caught looking towards the area outside Australia's dressing room, where television replays can be seen, while discussing whether to review the verdict, prompting umpire Nigel Llong to intervene. Players are not allowed to have any outside input while challenging the umpires' decisions, according to the rules. (Steve Smith on DRS controversy: I shouldn't have done that, it was a brain fade)An angry-looking Kohli ran towards Smith to let him know of his displeasure, as Long sent him on his way with the batsman walking towards the changing rooms amid boos from the crowd. (Virat Kohli furious after Steve Smith tried to cheat)Smith admitted he should not have looked at the dressing room for any suggestions and said it was brain fade. But Kohli pointed out that the Australians have done that previously in the Bengaluru Test. (Bengaluru Test: Ashwin's 6/41 seals sensational victory for India)The incident has left a bad taste in the mouth at the end of an absorbing Test match. While Sourav Ganguly, in an exclusive interview with Aaj Tak, asked for action to be taken against the Aussie captain, Michael Clarke told India Today it was unacceptable if Australia were indeed seeking help from outside the field for DRS. "From my perspective, when I was playing I remember having a brain fade when I gloved a ball and did not walk off. So I don't want to be too judgemental on anybody. If what Virat is saying is true and Australia are using their support staff to help them with DRS then that's not on, it is completely unacceptable," Clarke told India Today. "I think Smith respects the game and if it's a one-off, then it's a brain fade. "If you look at the footage, Peter Handscomb actually suggested Smith to turn around and look to the support staff. If this was a one-off, I don't think that would have happened. The fact that Handscomb is even thought of asking the Australian skipper to turn around and look to the support staff, I've got my concerns," Clarke said. 