Modi, Kejriwal wasting time of India, Delhi: Rahul Gandhi.
Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi launched party's Delhi unit's poll campaign for the upcoming prestigious MCD elections.The Amethi MP fired salvos on both Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. He even tried to boost the moral of cadre by calling them 'Babbar sher' ( Lion ).IDEOLOGY MATTERS The Gandhi scion said that the Congress workers , leaders , MLAs and MPs will tell the difference between their and AAP / BJP ideologies. "They know that everyone has some qualities and some wisdom ... And we make an effort to listen to all and run out governments unlike BJP and AAP," said Gandhi.REMEMBERS MA GANGAThough the curtain falls on the highly charged up poll campaign in Varanasi, the Amethi MP did mention Ma Ganga and Varanasi in his speech at Ramlila Maidan."Polls are being held in Uttar Pradesh. In 2014, Prime Minister Modi had said to the people of Varanasi, that Ganga Ma has called him. Ma Ganga belongs to each one of us but you try to understand the arrogance of a man who stands up and says that Ma Ganga is only his. Aren't we all not sons and daughters of Ma Ganga" said the Congress vice-president.KEJRIWAL KNOWS HOW TO USE THE ANGER OF DELHIITESNarrating an incident involving an AAP strategist, Rahul Gandhi said , "Someone from AAP came to meet me. I asked him that you work for Kejriwal, do you feel that Kejriwal has reduced corruption And will he be able to root out the corruption He said I know he will not be able to remove corruption. The AAP strategist informed me that Delhi Maine bahut gusa hai Kejriwal sirf uss gusse ka istimal karta hai ( Delhiities are really angry and Kejriwal just manipulate their anger). He added that in AAP only Kejriwal rules like a king and only his will / decisions works."Rahul also said that both PM Modi and CM Kejriwal are wasting time of the people of Delhi and the entire country. TICKET DISTRIBUTION IN CONGRESSRahul Gandhi while addressing party workers at the iconic Ramlila Maidan also said that he will not give tickets to parachute candidates. "We will give tickets only to our workers who fight for people of Delhi.. They will get the tickets and will elect their head," said Gandhi, adding, "You - the workers of Congress - are Babbar sher ( Lion ) , you don't need to be scared or worried."WHY IS THE PRIME MINISTER SILENT ON RACIAL ATTACKS ON NON-RESIDENT INDIANSRahul Gandhi said, "When people are dying in USA why Modiji hasn't spoken a word Because PM of India is scared." Also Read: Congress eyes Delhi, Rahul Gandhi to launch campaign for municipal election