Explosion inside Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train injures eight.
A blast was reported in a Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train, numbered 59320, on Tuesday morning. At least ten persons were injured, two of them seriously. The two seriously-injured people were referred to a hospital in Bhopal.The others were undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kalapipal town, which is close to the accident site - located around 81 km from the Madhya Pradesh capital.  Madhya Pradesh's IG Law and order Makrand Devaskar confirmed that the passenger train explosion was a terrorist attack.  Devaskar said that it was an IED blast and the police has arrested three persons from Pipariya. LUCKNOW ENCOUNTERThe people arrested were questioned, and the information they revealed was transmitted to the Centre.Early on Tuesday evening, Uttar Pradesh Police carried out raids, arresting two men in Kanpur and one from Eatawah. A third raid targeted a home in Thakuganj, Lucknow.At around 4 PM, the UP police said in a since-deleted tweet that a suspected militant - identified as Mohammed Saiful - was involved in a standoff with the state's Anti-Terrorism Squad.The encounter ended at around 3 AM on Wednesday. ATS IG Asim Arun confirmed that Saiful was killed.Saiful is believed to be part of a larger ISIS-inspired module that is suspected to be behind the Tuesday morning train blast.DETAILS OF THE BHOPAL -UJJAIN TRAIN BLAST The blast took place in the train's second-last coach, which was an ordinary second-class coach, Indian Railways PRO Anil Saxena said.  The incident occurred at arout 9:50 AM near Jabdi station, close to Kalapipal town in Shajapur district. The train was stopped as soon as the blast was reported.  Two coaches were damaged, and were separated from the train which later left for its onward journey, said PRO Jitendra Kumar Jayant.The glass panes of the windows in the general coach were shattered. Following the blast, the train came to a halt. Smoke engulfed the general coach, causing panic among the passengers who rushed out to save themselves. PRO Saxena said the ambulance reached the site of the blast within ten minutes. A relief train was rushed to the mishap site, PRO Jayant said. (Inputs from PTI) ALSO READ