Sunil Gavaskar was the 1st batsman to reach 10,000 Test runs.
Talk about small steps and giant leaps. On March 7, 1987, a quick single nudged through the slips to a Pakistani bowler named Ejaz Fakih took Sunil Manohar Gavaskar from his innings score of 57 to 58 at the Sardar Patel Stadium in rural Motera outside Ahmedabad. That run also took Gavaskar to a territory which, never mind the batsman, even cricket itself had never seen. Fifty seven to fifty eight sent Gavaskar from 9,999 to the first 10,000th run in Test cricket. Non-striker Kiran More says Gavaskar celebrated that moment like he usually didn't do in cricket. He sprinted. Or at least that's what it seemed like to millions watching TV because it was an accomplishment that all of India wanted to own quickly. So we believe that in that instant, this deliberate, determined Indian batsman was quicker than usual. His head slightly lowered, mid-single, Gavaskar raised his bat in both triumph and celebration. AlsoBy evening, he was out for 63 and they say when he returned to the dressing room, at first he was not satisfied, but furious. Gavaskar's principle never changed: every run counted, every innings had to be maximised. So 10,000 had been achieved but to not extend that innings of 63 irked him. If he ever got out after getting in, dressing rooms would usually clear out to give the infuriated maestro his space. When play ended, what he did have though, was contentment, "I would have just been happy with 1,000 runs. Now I feel 10 times more fantastic." No wonder, even in the dry state of Gujarat that night, they sourced some champagne to go with the cake. India did not know it then but Gavaskar was to play only one more Test after Ahmedabad. When he retired later that year, the country was in deep gloom: Indian cricket's defender, its most gritty general had gone. He had re-defined the standards of excellence and professionalism, re-written definitions in the school of Indian batsmanship. It is said he has no mementos from the match in which he crossed 10,000, but he wouldn't need any: Sunil Gavaskar's achievement always carries with it the power of everlasting memory. --by Sharda Ugra