Will make Delhi like London if AAP wins MCD: Kejriwal.
Pitching for Aam Aadmi Partys victory in the upcoming municipal elections, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said if his party comes to power in MCD then they will make Delhi comparable to London.Addressing a gathering at Uttam Nagar, Kejriwal said the BJP-ruled municipal bodies have not been able to keep Delhi clean.The dates for MCD elections are yet to be announced.Last time you gave us 67 seats but this time dont even leave the 3 seats. If we win MCD once, we will change Delhi so much in one year that you will compare Delhi to London, he said.The CM said that people have the misconception that Delhi is not clean due to AAP governments failure. Wherever I go, people have misconception that garbage is not being picked up and there is no cleaning because of Delhi government. It is not our but MCDs responsibility, he said.Kejriwal said the BJP and Congress have been leading the municipal bodies for the last 20 years without doing anything.They have looted MCD. MCD collects so much money from house tax, hoarding, parking. Last year, Delhi government gave them Rs 2,800 crore. But where is all this money Why is Delhi not being cleaned They make the same road thrice on paper and eat all the money, he said.Kejriwal said his government has been able to do many things in the last two years which the BJP-run governments in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have not been able to do in the last 10-15 years.Before we came to power, the Delhi government had a policy of doing development activity in regularised colonies only. But we changed it. We said it doesnt matter if the colony is regularised or not, people living there are humans and they need water, sewer, power, and road, he said.Meanwhile, Congress workers led by former Uttam Nagar legislator Mukesh Sharma protested near the venue where Kejriwal was addressing the gathering. As they tried to show black flags, police stopped the protesters from reaching near the crowd. The protesters then burnt effigy of Kejriwal accusing the AAP government of cheating the city residents. All these inaugurations are an eyewash. Incomplete sewer work is being inaugurated just because of the MCD polls. I got the sewerage work started in the area during my tenure, Sharma said.