Delhi govt ties up with private hospitals for free surgeries.
The AAP government has tied with 41 private hospitals in Delhi to facilitate 30 surgeries free of charge for patients referred by government hospitals in the Capital.It will reimburse these National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers-accredited hospitals at Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) rates for the complete treatment.It will including pre-surgery consultation, surgery, medicines, food and hospital stay, and follow-ups for a month after discharge.Patients visiting Delhi government hospitals have to wait anywhere between three months and two years to undergo these surgeries. List of surgeries to be done at private centres:1. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: Minimally invasive gall bladder removal2. Thyroid surgery: Surgery performed to treat nodules and cancer of thyroid and hyperthyroidism3. Haemorrhoidectomy: Surgery to remove haemorrhoids, swollen and inflamed veins in the rectum and anus4. Stapled Haemorrhoidectomy: Procedure to remove abnormally enlarged hemorrhoidal tissue and repositioning the remaining hemorrhoidal tissue back to its normal position5. Haemorrhoidectomy + Fissurectomy: Surgery to remove haemorrhoids along with repair of a tear in the lining of the anus6. Fissurectomy: Surgery to repair a tear in the lining of the anus7. Fistula High End: Surgery to repair abnormal connection between organs above the anorectal ring, muscular structure between anus and rectum8. Fistula Low End: Surgery to repair abnormal connection between organs below the anorectal ring, muscular structure between anus and rectum9. Appendectomy (Laparoscopic): Surgery to remove the appendix10. Excision of Pilonidal Sinus With Flap Cover: Surgery to remove an abnormal skin growth at the tailbone that contains hair and skin and covering the area with a skin flap11. Excision of Pilonidal Sinus with Primary Closure: Surgery to remove an abnormal skin growth at the tailbone that contains hair and skin and suturing the wound12. Thyroidectomy (Total/Subtotal): Surgery to remove part or all of the thyroid gland13. Breast Lumpectomy: Surgery to remove cancerous lumps from the breast14. Cataract with IOL with Tension Rings: Cataract removal surgery15. Mastoidectomy: Surgery to remove diseased cells of mastoid bone in inner ear16. Tonsillectomy: Surgery to remove tonsils 17. Tympanoplasty: Surgery to repair eardrum18. Septoplasty: Surgery to correct deviated septum, the cartilage diving the two nostrils19. Nasal Polyps/Sinusitis (Fess) ? Unilateral: Surgery to remove non-cancerous growth within the nose20. Nasal Polyps/Sinusitis (Fess) ? Bilateral: Surgery to remove non-cancerous growth inside the nose21. Cortical Mastoidectomy with Myringoplasty: Surgery to remove mastoid cells without affecting the middle ear along with closure of perforation in eardrums22. Peritonsillar Abscess Drainage: Surgery to drain pus near the tonsils23. Septoplasty + Turbinoplasty/Conchaplasty: Surgery to correct deviated septum along with reduction of turbinate bone that protrudes into the breathing passage24. Myringotomy with Grommet Insertion: Surgery to insert a small tube in the eardrum to drain a thick sticky fluid from behind the eardrum 25. CABG: Heart bypass26. PCNL ? Unilateral: Minimally-invasive procedure to remove stones from the kidney by a small puncture wound through the skin27. PCNL ? Bilateral: Minimally-invasive procedure to remove stones from the kidney by a small puncture wound through the skin28. Cystoscopy (therapeutic): A scope inserted through the urethra and into the bladder to check its insides29. Prostate (TURP): Surgery used to treat urinary problems due to an enlarged prostate30. Kidney stone removal