Don't drop catches else Smith will score a ton: Clarke.
Question: Do you think Bhuvneshwar Kumar will replace Ishant Sharma in Bengaluru Clarke: I think Ishant Sharma deserves to be in the team. Bhuvneshwar Kumar is a great player. He has great record against the left-handers, especially against Warner. India would want to get him in the squad. But I think Ishant surely deserves a place. CLICK TO WATCH FULL INTERVIEWQuestion: If it is a good pitch in Bengaluru, which team will have the advantageClarke: It is a first innings game... it is very critical to make as many runs in the first innings. Doesn't really matter if you win or lose the toss. You have to get a good score in the first innings. It sets the tone up. We have seen that now in a tough wicket in Pune. Test match is literally over in the first innings. It will be no different in Bengaluru. The wicket will deteriorate over the five days. So, on a good wicket, toss doesn't matter. You just want to score more runs in the first innings. Question: How would you get Steve Smith outClarke: Laughs... Smith is in unbelievable form... a lot like Virat Kohli. Some times you have to just watch and applaud when a player is in such terrific form. I think India had a lot of opportunities to get him out in Pune. There's now doubt India will have plans for each Australian batsmen. My advice to India would be to hand on to your catches. #AskMichael what advice you give to team india when they are using DRS system in test match where you have only 2 reviews for 80 overs#AskMichael Do you think India should open with Vijay and Pujara and send KL Rahul to bat at No. 3 with Kohli coming in at No. 3NO CHANGES FOR AUSTRALIA:Clarke: I don't think Australia will make any change in Bengaluru. They have won the first Test and have the momentum. I think they will go with the same team in Bengaluru. On Ajinkya Rahane: Clarke: I think Rahane is a wonderful player... think India will give him another opportunity. I think India will make a change in Bengaluru. They will go with two spinner - R Ashwin and R Jadeja. I like to see Rahane in the team. If he is good form, that puts India in dominant position. Boria Majumdar: You had dinner with Virat Kohli last night. Give us some insights about his mind.Clarke: Virat Kohli is a strong character. He is ready and focused on the Bengaluru Test. I consider Kohli as the best batsman right now in all formats. Question: What India need to do to win in BengaluruClarke: India need to combat the big four players in Bengaluru. David Warner, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood. If India can keep these four quiet in Bengaluru, they can win the Test match.  Michael Clarke: Positive for Australian cricket that they have won the first Test. But they know what challenge lies ahead. I am very impressive with what Virat Kohli said after the Pune loss.Australia now are confident that they can beat India at their own backyard. That's a big boost for the visitors. Ask me your questions live today on @indiatoday at 6pm IST with @boriamajumdar by using the hashtag #AskMichael