Looking forward to get back to winning ways: Anil Kumble.
India coach Anil Kumble on Thursday said it was important to move ahead from the embarrassing defeat in Pune and focus on the Bengaluru Test to get back to winning ways against Australia.Australia won the first Test of the four-match series by 333 runs with two days to spare and snapped India's 19-Test unbeaten run, shocking fans who expected the team to steamroll the visitors.Also watch: I consider Kohli as the best batsman right now in all formats: Michael ClarkeKumble felt his team needed to forget what happened in Pune and concentrate on making a comeback in the series in Bengaluru Test starting March 4. (Why Australia's spinners won't threaten India again in this series)"What has happened in Pune is done and dusted. We didn't play really well, didn't adapt to the conditions. Every game we need to adapt to what comes our way. Australia played well," Kumble said at the press conference ahead of the second Test."We don't need to worry about the Pune loss. Really looking to forward to this game to get back to winning ways. It was a team failure and we cannot point fingers at anyone," he added. (Can Virat Kohli's India repeat 2001 heroics vs Australia Harbhajan Singh and Nayan Mongia recall Kolkata miracle)Skipper Virat Kohli had blamed India's batting - they were skittled for 105 and 107 - for the unexpectedly lopsided 333-run defeat. The former India captain, who took charge as the head coach in June last year, said his side will look to play as a unit in Bengaluru and tick the boxes which they failed to do in Pune. (Sourav Ganguly recalls 2001 miracle vs Australia at Eden Gardens)"Australia are a quality side. Don't think we played to our potential in Pune. We want to play to our potential in this match. Partnerhsips as batting unit, bowling unit, didn't tick those boxes. We want to tick those boxes to win the Test match," he said.Before the Pune Test, India were on an unbeaten streak at home in the 20 previous matches, while Australia entered the series on a streak of nine losses in Tests played in Asia. (Pune pitch rated 'poor' by International Cricket Council)"You can't keep winning every game. It has to come to an end. 20 games winning streak in international cricket is quite challenging. This team has able to do it. This team adapted to different situations but last game we did not and that's why we lost," Kumble said.The coach also made it clear that there was no question of dropping batsman Ajinkya Rahane from the playing XI after a single failure in Pune.Rahane got the nod in Pune ahead of Karun Nair, who slammed a triple hundred against England in the Chennai Test. However, Rahane's poor performance in Pune, where he managed to score 13 and 18 in both innings, led to questions being asked on his place in the team. (India frugal with praise for Pune tormentor Steve O'Keefe)"There's no question of dropping Ajinkya Rahane. He has scored well and has extremely successful. We still haven't discussed the team composition. It is unfortunate that Karun Nair has missed out. That's how the team composition goes. "That's the beauty about this group. Whoever has come in, has done really well. Unfortunate for Karun, he is a class act. Our aim is to win every game," he said.