Leftists celebrate when our jawans die: Kiren Rijiju.
Union minister Kiren Rijiju has accused Left parties of misleading people amid the raging controversy over Delhi University student Gurmehar Kaur's social media posts . Kaur, daughter of Captain Mandeep Singh who was martyred in a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir in 1999, is at the centre of a huge row which erupted after her posts on social media against the violence which took place at DU's Ramjas College last week."She(Gurmehar Kaur) is a young girl, creating controversy over her isn't right. It is about leftists who celebrate when our jawans die," Rijiju said. "During war between India and China they (left) supported China; they mislead the youth and it is not right,"  the Minister of State for Home Affairs added. "She is a martyr's daughter. His soul must be weeping that his daughter is being misguided by those who celebrate on the bodies of martyrs," Rijiju said.Rijiju's remarks were in response to Kaur's video in which she is seen holding a placard which read," Pakistan didn't kill my father, war did." Kaur had actually posted the video in May last year advocating India-Pakistan peace and it was reposted after February 22 violence in Ramjas College as part of protest against BJP-backed Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). The student organisation was blamed behind the violence in which students, teachers and journalists were beaten up. PROTEST MARCH AT RAMJASMeanwhile, hundreds of students and teachers of Delhi University, JNU and Jamia hit the streets with a call to "save" the varsities from the "onslaught" of ABVP and "curbing" of dissent. However, Gurmehar Kaur opted out of the protest march. Her mother said she has left Delhi. The students held posters with messages like "Your nationalism is not above our democracy".The protesters, mainly comprising students of left forums like AISA, shouted slogans "ABVP Go Back" and "Azaadi" as the march made its way through the roads of North Campus towards the Arts Faculty building.The gates of the colleges falling on the route of the march, which began from the gates of Khalsa College, were shut."We are marching to reclaim the space to debate and discuss. It is about the freedom to coexist, yet disagree," a student said.There was heavy police deployment to prevent a rerun of the clashes that were witnessed between ABVP and AISA last week following cancellation of an event at Ramjas College after activists of the RSS-backed students' wing objected to the invitation to JNU student leaders Umar Khalid and Shehla Rashid.(With inputs from PTI)WATCH: DU protest: As students march against Ramjas violence, ABVP turns defensiveALSO READ: 