10 supercars seized in Chennai for illegal racing.
While 10 super cars were seized from near Akkarai on East Coast Road on Sunday evening for violating traffic, deeper investigations have revealed the story of a traffic policeman who defied norms and stood against the VIP culture. Following the incident, an FIR was filed against 10 persons. The accused were also booked for rash driving, obstructing public servant and hindering him from conducting his duty. "Apparently, a traffic unit detected the 10 Supercars grouping near VGP, ECR for a rally and informed the control room. Another team detected the speed of the vehicle near Akkarai which exceeded 180km/hr on a stretch that was 60km/hr zone", explained a police officer. "What's bad is that they didn't even stop when we intercepted them at Akkarai", he added. Traffic Inspector Soundarrajan and his team were alerted near the Uthama toll gate as the cars sped away from Akkarai. Soundarrajan, blocked the cars and cordoned them. When he asked for the documentation, the drivers were able to only give them a copy of their driver's license and refused to cooperate.TRAFFIC COP INJUREDThe situation turned ugly when a Lamborghini Aventador tried to break from line and escape. Soundarrajan jumped in front of the car to stop it. But the driver ran over Soundarrajan's foot and escaped. The driver was later identified as Raghav Krishna by the cops and an additional FIR under section 332 IPC was filed against him. Kanathur Police later tracked Raghav's residence in the night and apprehended the vehicle. All 10 drivers were left on station bail. "We initiated the traffic check after the countless complaints from people. I have done my job and law and order will take it from here," said Sounderrajan. But unofficial account stated that there was too much pressure from above who wanted Kanathur Police to release the seized vehicles at once due to their whopping Rs 50 Cr cost. Yet, Soundarrajan, Kanathur police and Neelangarai Assistant Commissioner S Pandian, decided to go ahead with the impounding as for the public safety was more important than costly cars. 