Sony unveils world's first smartphone with 4K HDR display.
Hot on the heels of Nokia, LG and Huawei's, Sony has unveiled their latest Xperia flagship Smartphone - the Xperia XZ Premium at the Mobile World Conference in Barcelona. The Xperia XZ Premium is undoubtedly the company's most exciting device in years and comes with a range of breakthrough features, the chief amongst them being the world's first 4K HDR display in a smartphone. Unlike the LG G6, which has eschewed Qualcomm's latest processor - the Snapdragon 835 in favour of the older Snapdragon 821 in order to gain the first mover advantage over the Galaxy S8, Sony has decided to stick with the 835 for the XZ Premium.The catch here is the fact that the XZ Premium will not be out before Spring, which is quite some time away. Additionally, the smartphone comes with 4GB of RAM, a 3,230mAh battery with QuickCharge 3.0 support and Android 7.0 out of the box. As with previous Xperia's, the power button doubles up as a fingerprint scanner. Also Read:  Nokia 3310 relaunched: What is its price and other questions answeredTouted as a 'game-changing camera', the Sony Xperia XZ Premium comes with an entirely new camera system called the 'Motion Eye' which comes with the world's first memory stacked sensor. Sony has embedded fast memory right into the camera stack which allows the smartphone to capture video at an astonishing 960 frames per second, which is 4 times slower than any other smartphone available today. Sony claims that the ' World's fastest image capture technology in a smartphone' allows the camera to capture instances that occur in the blink of an eye and reveal things beyond what the human vision is capable of seeing. The added memory also brings with it improved predictive capture in the XZ Premium. The device starts to buffer images the moment it detects motion and selects 4 of the best photos by analysing the speed of the moving object.Additionally, the XZ Premium also comes with the same triple-sensor system found in the Xperia XZ, although the sensor's resolution has been reduced slightly to 19 megapixels. It has an aperture of f/2.0 and comes with SteadyShot and an 'Anti-distortion' shutter. On the front, there is a 13MP camera with an aperture of f/2.0 for selfies.Along with the camera, the display is what sets the XZ Premium apart from the competition. It is the first smartphone in the world to come with a 4K HDR display which is 5.5' in size and is also 40% brighter than the Xperia Z5 Premium's panel.The problem with the Xperia Z5 Premium was the fact that there was little or no 4K content available to enjoy on the smartphone. To remedy this, Sony has entered into a partnership with Amazon Prime Video where users will be able to enjoy a selection of 4K HDR content on their smartphones.Lastly, Sony has entered into a partnership with Qualcomm in order to create a new class of devices that are capable of gigabit LTE speeds. The XZ Premium will be the first smartphone to feature the same and offer not only high speeds but much better speeds everywhere. 