Consolidation due to Jio is ideal, says Telecom Secretary.
Barcelona, Feb 26 (PTI) The fresh round of consolidation unfolding in the Indian telecom market is likely to yield five major players ensuring "enough competition but not fragmentation of spectrum", Telecom Secretary J S Deepak said. His comments assume significance as India -- the worlds second largest mobile services market after China -- is in the midst of massive consolidation with incumbent operators joining forces to take on aggressive newcomer Reliance Jio. The consolidation in the otherwise crowded Indian telecom industry has been hastened by Jios free voice call and data plans, forcing incumbents to slash tariff at the cost of profits. "Dropping revenue is a concern which we are also addressing...Era of free service and falling revenue will change...In this backdrop, the investments in India are not only welcome but are also likely to be productive," Deepak told PTI. On consolidation playing out in the telecom market, he said, "The way things are...this consolidation is going to be very good for India as we are likely to get four private and one government player...BSNL-MTNL...which is ideal." Asked if the spate of buyouts would leave enough room for competition in the Indian market, Deepak said, "Ideal is five players for India, which is what is likely to happen". Stating that the consolidation is potentially resulting in five big players would ensure "enough competition but not fragmentation of spectrum", he said, it will be "optimum for the Indian market". Last week, Indias largest telecom operator Bharti Airtel announced acquisition of Norwegian Telenors India unit. Bharti Airtels revenue market share will rise to 35.6 per cent following the acquisition. Telenor India currently has 2.6 per cent share in Indian market. Vodafone and Idea have already said that they are considering merging their businesses in India, a move that would create the biggest telecom operator in the country with about USD 12 billion in sales. 