Confident that the Indian team will fight back: Sachin.
After India slumped to a humiliating 333-run defeat at the hands of Australia in the opening Test in Pune, legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has shown faith on Virat Kohli and the team, saying that the series is still wide open and that the home side will surely bounce back in the next match to be held in Bengaluru from March 4. (Surprised with the way Australia won: Clarke to India Today)Chasing a mammoth target of 441 runs to win, India suffered a second batting collapse in two days and were bowled out for 107 runs in the second innings just on Day 3 of the first Test at the Maharashtra Cricket Association (MCA) Stadium. (India suffer first three-day Test defeat since 2008)Speaking on the sidelines of IDBI Federal New Delhi Marathon at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, the master blaster said that losing is a part and parcel of the game before adding that he is sure that Virat Kohli's men would come up with a much better performance in the upcoming matches. (India will now be scared of preparing turning pitches: Ganguly)Knowing the spirit of our team,I know they'll fight back;There're good&tough moments,it's all about hw you stand back on your feet-Tendulkar pic.twitter.com/MoDVJ1mr5X"Yes, it was a tough game for us. And it is a part and parcel of the game. That doesn't mean that the series is close. Series is still wide open. Knowing the spirit of the Indian team, I know that they will fight back hard and the Australian team also knows about it. Because when we played in Australia we beat them, we knew that they will come back really hard. That is what makes sport interesting. This is what sportsmen play for," Tendulkar said. (Kohli's captaincy will be tested now: Clarke to India Today)"There are good and tough moments. But it is all about how you stand back on your feet again and start competing and I have no doubt that the Indian team is going to come back and compete hard," he added. (We were not good enough in any of the three days: Kohli)The loss ended India's winning streak of 19 matches on the trot and also the 17-match home-winning streak. This was also Kohli's first defeat as captain in Test cricket at home.India last tasted a home defeat in Tests in 2012 against England.