DU girl gang raped by classmate and his friends.
A 20-year-old Delhi University student on Saturday alleged that she was gang-raped and threatened by two of her classmates and four of his friends. According to the police, the woman, a third-year student, went to the house of her friends ? Gaurav and Sunny ? in Faridabad, for a party after a cultural programme on February 3. In her statement, she said that the two men, both residents of Faridabad, were joined by four others ? Sachin, Rohtash, Vinod and Bunty ? at their house. She said the men started consuming alcohol later and misbehaved with her.?In her statement, the woman said that she was overpowered by Gaurav, Sunny, Rohtash and Sachin, who then took turns to rape her. She said that the men gave her a drink laced with sedatives and she started feeling dizzy after consuming it. She claimed that the men took advantage of her after she became semi-conscious and could not resist their advances,? a police officer said.The woman said that after she regained her consciousness, she was threatened by the men. ?The men allegedly shot some videos of the woman and threatened to make them public if she reported the matter to the police or her parents. The girl was scared, so she did not approach the police and requested the men to drop her back home,? a police officer said.She stated that later Vinod offered to drop her back home in his car. On the way back, Vinod too, stopped the car midway at an isolated spot and raped her again. ?She has alleged that even Vinod raped and threatened her. She then returned home and stayed quiet for some days before filing a complaint with the police on February 18,? a police officer said.?She said that she could initially not muster the courage to complain against the men,? he added.Though the incident occurred in Faridabad, based on her complaint, the police registered a case of gangrape, intimidation and criminal conspiracy against the men in Delhi. Raids were then conducted to arrest all the accused. ?We registered a case in Delhi, because the woman approached us and stated that she was taken to Faridabad from Lajpat Nagar. Since it all began at Lajpat Nagar, the case was filed there. While five accused, including Bunty, have been arrested, one accused ? Sachin ? is still on the run. Our teams have launched a manhunt for him and he will be arrested soon? a police officer said.