Surprised with the way Aus won the Test: Michael Clarke.
Former Australia captain Michael Clarke was surprised with the way Steve Smith's men hammered India on a tailor-made pitch for the hosts in the first Test in Pune.Steve O'Keefe picked up match figures of 12/70 as Australia decimated India by 333 runs to end their unbeaten streak. (Also read: India suffer first three-day Test defeat since April 2008)CLICK HERE TO WATCH VIDEOSmith scored his fifth successive hundred against India while Mitchell Starc and Nathan Lyon made significant contributions through the course of the match. (Also read: Steve Smith ecstatic after Australia's first Test win in India after 4502 days)"Not too many Australians expected a win like this. Surprised with the way Australia won. Virat Kohli spoke really well after the defeat. He was open and honest. India will look to improve in the next Test," Clarke told India Today. (Also read: Virat Kohli furious after 'worst batting performance in the last two years')"Winning the toss was crucial. Starc's 61 runs were crucial in the first innings and nothing can take away the performance of Steve O'Keefe and his 12 wickets. We can expect a fantastic series now," he added.India, who had not lost a home Test in 20 matches since a 2012 defeat to England in Kolkata, were once again unable to cope with O'Keefe's probing lines after they were bundled out for a paltry 105 in the first innings. Chasing a massive victory target of 441, India scored just two more runs in their second innings to capitulate inside three days at the Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium, making its debut as a Test centre.O'Keefe's spin colleague Nathan Lyon provided able support, picking up the other four wickets in India's innings for 53 runs."Australia selectors deserve a lot of credit. To their credit they stuck with what was right and it all worked. Don't forget the contributions from Nathan Lyon. The wicket was extremely dry and it looked like it would turn from day one," Clarke said.Clarke also criticised India's sloppy fielding in the match.Smith, who was unbeaten on 59 overnight, was dropped three times on Friday and was handed another lifeline on 67 but maintained his concentration on a tricky surface to bring up his 18th Test hundred.He also enjoyed another slice of fortune on 73 when a strong appeal for leg before off Jadeja was turned down by the umpire with replays indicating the decision would have been overturned on review had India not already used up their two referrals.