PWD approves flyover in Ghaziabad's Raj Nagar Extension.
The public works department (PWD) has cleared the proposal for the construction of a flyover over the erstwhile NH-58 near Raj Nagar Extension (RNE). After NH-58 was denotified as a highway last year, it was assigned as other district road to the PWD as per a state government notification in June.Due to massive inflow of traffic on the Ghaziabad-Meerut Road (erstwhile NH-58), officials of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) had proposed the construction of a flyover and also altered the design, by making it a split-type flyover, as the regional rapid transit system (RRTS) corridor passes through the median of the road.We have given clearance for the project to the GDA. They will have to prepare a service lane in the area and also have to take care of the piped gas line that passes through the area. They will make use of additional land in the vicinity and also remove encroachments. We also reviewed their traffic plan and have given them the permission after a thorough study, said Manish Verma, executive engineer, PWD.We also checked the RRTS alignment and had also asked them to take permission from the agency concerned. The clearance was given on a review of the traffic regulation plan and provision for the RRTS alignment. We are also planning to make the road a state highway and will send a proposal to the government. This is because the volume of traffic has remained the same despite the road being denotified as a highway, he said.The proposed flyover, spanning 538 metres, is pegged at Rs50 crore and its design was changed from combined six-lane to three-lane (each side) split-type one. The middle portion between the two lanes will be used for the RRTS, which will come up on an elevated section, like the metro train system.The authority had proposed the flyover to decongest the city roads as a heavy volume of traffic is witnessed at the intersection.The design for the flyover has been approved by the RRTS agency. The flyover design report is waiting to be vetted by IIT, Roorkee. The UP state bridge corporation is the construction agency. Once the design is vetted, the flyover construction can be started. We have received clearances from PWD for the project, said Chakresh Jain, executive engineer, GDA.The authority has also proposed a flyover in Vasundhara, over the Link Road. Officials said that the proposed design is not in conflict with the RRTS alignment and pegged the cost at Rs50 crore.