Sunny's past has no bearing on how she'll be as mother: Ram.
Ever since actor Sunny Leone and husband, businessman Daniel Weber, adopted a baby girl, Nisha Kaur Weber,  people from the film fraternity have been congratulating the couple. However, nasty tongues have been at work too. Not sparing a good deed, trolls are pointing fingers at Sunnys past  and saying that having an adult film star for a mother will affect the childs future. Reacting to these shameless trolls, actor Ram Kapoor, who has worked with Sunny in the film Kuch Kuch Locha Hai (2015), says its completely wrong for people to say things against her based on her past career choices.I find this absolutely ridiculous. People need to realise that she has not broken any laws. Whatever her past is and whatever her choices have been, she has done that in a country where its allowed and legal, and not in this country where its illegal. She has made her choice as an adult and she lives by them. She is not one of those women who regrets any of her decisions or past. She is very level-headed, says Ram.    Sunny Leone and her husband Daniel Weber adopted a little angel & named her Nisha Kaur Weber.  My heart is so happy for this cute family! Ugh, huge respect for these two amazing souls.  A post shared by hindi cinema (@bollywoodbaarish) on Jul 22, 2017 at 10:07am PDT While some trolls said that Indian authorities should not have allowed Sunny to adopt a girl, others are worried what the child will go through when shell Google  her parents once she grows up. Stating that Sunny and Daniel are sensible people, Ram adds, Ive spent a lot of time with them and they obviously would have thought about this for a long time before they decided to go ahead with adoption. [Also] On how she will raise her child or what will the child go through when she finds out about her parents past, is something that is private to them and their family.    Another shot of #nishaweber #nishakaurweber #sunnyleone #danielweber #bollyholics__ A post shared by BOLLYHOLICS (@bollyholics__) on Jul 23, 2017 at 4:04am PDT Ram lashes out at those who say that Sunny wont be a good mother.  The [career] choices you have made in life have no bearing on what kind of a parent you are going to be. What if you were some banker or were an employee in an office, but you were a shitty parentRam feels that it is high time people stop trolling celebrities on their personal life and should respect their choices. You can  discuss, talk about their work, fashion sense and whatever they do in their professional life. India needs to grow up. When the person has not broken any law and hasnt upset any system in any way, and has technically made all her choices by herself and with her own mind, and not under pressure or stress from someone else, then what business does anyone else have to judge him or her asks the actor.Follow @htshowbiz for more