Didn't ask anyone to resign: Nitish Kumar post resignation.
In dramatic developments in Bihar, Nitish Kumar on Wednesday resigned as chief minister, dumping the RJD and Congress to stitch a new alliance with BJP, which quickly announced support to a new government under him. Kumar, whose resignation was immediately accepted by governor Keshari Nath Tripathi, will take oath at the chief minister at 5pm on Thursday.In the circumstances that prevail in Bihar, it became difficult to run the grand alliance government, Kumar told reporters outside Raj Bhavan after submitting his resignation to governor Keshri Nath Tripathi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Kumars resignation, saying in doing so he has joined the fight against corruption. Immediately after Kumar announced his resignation, Modi tweeted: Congratulations! Mr Nitish Kumar for joining the fight against corruption.Here are Wednesdays highlights on the political crisis in Bihar:12.30am: Lalu Prasad says: Nitish Kumar has underlined that he is an opportunist. Having done what he has, he cannot stake claim without a challenge. The Congress, CPI-ML and independents will back our claims to form the next government... Struggle is my life. I have to be in Ranchi for the next three days. However, Tejashwi has been asked to present the claim to the governor in the forenoon tomorrow.12.28am: Tejashwi Yadav along with RJD delegation will meet Bihar governor KN Tripathi at 11 am on Thursday; to stake claim for forming government.12.07am: Taking a letter of support to governor to stake claim for forming government: Prem Kumar, BJP, on Sushil Modi and Nitish Kumars meet with governor Keshari Nath Tripathi.12.04am: Have asked Governor for time to meet, being the largest party we will stake claim to from government, tweets Tejashwi Yadav. We will also get support from JDU MLAs, he says.11.56pm: Nitish Kumar, Sushil Modi and BJP, JDU leaders leave for Raj Bhavan to meet governor Keshari Nath Tripathi.11.11pm: Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi reaches Raj Bhavan after being discharged from hospital.10.36pm: Nitish Kumar to take oath as CM of Bihar at 5pm tomorrow.10.31pm: Bihar governor KN Tripathi admitted to Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna due to an ENT problem.10.20pm: Nitish may take oath on Thursday. A meeting of JD(U) and BJP MLAs is underway.10.07pm: When Nitish Kumar broke alliance with BJP in 2013 he choreographed and followed the same script to secure himself. He surrenders as per needs: Lalu Prasads tweet9.55pm: Sushil Modi says BJP has handed over a letter of support to the governor, and will be part of the new government. All NDA members are heading to 1, Aney Marg to elect Nitish Kumar as the leader, Modi adds.9.49pm: Sushil Modi, Nityanand Rai and other BJP MLAs reach Nitish Kumars residence in Patna for a meeting of JDU-BJP MLAs, reports ANI.9.30pm: Sushil Kumar Modi says BJP will be part of the government under Nitish Kumar. BJP and JD(U) leaders are headed to the Raj Bhawan to meet governor Keshari Nath Tripathi.9.02pm: There are charges against both Nitish and Tejashwi. The MLAs of the Grand Alliance parties should sit down and pick a new leader. Bihars poor, deprived and reservation-backed sections gave the Grand Alliance historic majority against the BJP. This is foeticide of the Grand Alliance There were corruption allegations against us before. Did Nitish Kumar not know while making an alliance and forming a government -- Lalu Prasads tweets9.01pm: Nityanand Rai and I called Nitish Ji. The BJP decides to support him; we will support the government formed under him. We will inform the governor also: ANIquotes Sushil Modi as saying9pm: Thank PM Modi for his tweet on my decision, tweets Nitish Kumar after resigning as Bihar CM8.55pm: Theres involvement of Narendra Modi. Nitish Kumar slapped people of Bihar. People like Sushil Modi are eager to form a government in Bihar: Lalu Prasad8.40pm: Meeting underway at Lalu Prasads residence in Patna. Rabri Devi, Tejashwi Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav and senior RJD leaders present.8.23pm: CP Joshi was informed at the governors house; he asked Kumar to wait. Joshi said he will get back after a word with Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi: ANI quotes sources8.21pm: Nitish Kumar did not inform Rahul Gandhi about his intention to resign in their meeting: ANIquotes sources.8.02pm: I appeal to Nitish Kumar... All RJD, JD(U) and Congress MLAs should sit down and pick new leader and make a government... His unwillingness to do so will prove he has already struck a deal with the BJP: Lalu Prasad7.59pm: The BJP welcomes the battle against corruption in Bihar; not in favour of midterm elections... A three-member panel from Bihar will report to central leadership for final call: JP Nadda after the BJPs parliamentary board meeting.7.58pm: We are deeply disappointed by the news of Nitish Kumars resignation. The Congress respects Nitish Kumar as a leader: Randeep Surjewala, Congress7.57pm: Nitish Kumar knew that he is accused of section 302; one of Indias CM is main accused in murder and arms case : Lalu Prasad7.51pm: Nitish Kumar had said that he will never join hands with BJP: Lalu Prasad7.50pm: RJD chief Lalu Prasad says did not speak to the press over corruption allegations against  Tejashwi following lawyers advice. 7.49pm: Nitish Kumar did not ask for resignation: RJD chief Lalu Prasad at a press conference after Nitish Kumar quits as Bihar CM.7.45pm: RJD chief Lalu Prasad to address a press conference shortly.7.42pm: We are happy that Bihar CM didnt compromise on issue of corruption and did not kneel down before RJD: BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi7.36pm: We dont want midterm elections in Bihar. The MLAs should complete their term. A three-member committee will talk to MLAs and apprise the Centre of the situation in the state: BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi7.26pm: Source say BJP legislature party to finalise support without preconditions at its meeting late evening today.7.25pm: Nitish-Lalu alliance was a mismatch. This had to happen: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Nitish Kumars resignation7.24pm: PM Narendra Modi arrives for BJP parliamentary meeting in Delhi.7.09pm: The country and time require that for the bright future of India, and especially Bihar, people need to rise above political disputes and fight against corruption together: Prime Minister Narendra Modi7.09pm: I congratulate Nitish Kumar for joining the fight against corruption. The 1.25 billion people of the country are welcoming and supporting his honesty: Prime Minister Narendra Modi7.08pm: Before resigning, I had informed Laluji and Congress Bihar in-charge CP Joshi: Nitish Kumar.7.05pm: Gandhiji always said needs can be met on the Earth, but greed can never be fulfilled: Nitish Kumar7.04pm: I am not blaming anyone, those who want to blame me are free to do so: Nitish Kumar7.02pm: I felt that for a person like me it was not possible to run this government. I dont want to create a dispute... When I saw there was no other way... I broke myself away (from the alliance with the RJD). The governor has accepted my resignation, and asked me to continue working till the next development.6.58pm: We worked in the alliance till the point we could: Nitish Kumar6.57pm: If there are charges then they must have replied to it. We felt they were not in a position to speak: Nitish Kumar6.56pm: Its not possible to work in this environment; I tried. Tried to find out a solution: Nitish Kumar6.52pm: The situation is such that its not possible to work. Whatever we do, the discussion is only about one thing: Nitish Kumar6.50pm: Not possible to work in the grand alliance. We made all attempts. We never asked for anyones resignation: Nitish Kumar6.34pm: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar reaches Raj Bhavan to meet Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi amid speculation that he may resign.6.33pm: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on his way to Raj Bhavan to meet Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi.