McDonald's employee fired on dirty ice-cream machine post.
A US man, who claimed he worked with McDonald, took to Twitter to share some photos of a gross, slimy substance that he said was found inside the American fast food restaurant chains ice cream machine. The Twitter user, who goes by the handle @phuckyounick, shared a number of behind-the-scene pictures, even questioning whether the frozen food was real meat or fish. This came out of McDonalds ice cream machine in case yall were wondering... he wrote as he posted the snaps on Twitter.This came out of McDonald's ice cream machine in case y'all were wondering... pic.twitter.com/DTXXpzE7Ce nick (@phuckyounick) July 14, 2017Since I'm exposing McDonald's I might as well show y'all what y'all really eating... fresh out the freezer. pic.twitter.com/KZ7Ao1kWsR nick (@phuckyounick) July 18, 2017Nice and dirty... pic.twitter.com/vjxuVLJpgF nick (@phuckyounick) July 18, 2017While some doubted the truth behind the photos, others blamed the man for not cleaning the machine himself. One commented, Wrong tray. Cones dont go there. Another wrote,  .. the ice cream its only like that because yall the employees arent cleaning the machine daily like your suppose to be.plus aout the ice cream its only like that because y'all the employees aren't cleaning the machine daily like your suppose to be. D'King (@notdannym) July 19, 2017plus aout the ice cream its only like that because y'all the employees aren't cleaning the machine daily like your suppose to be. D'King (@notdannym) July 19, 2017Wrong tray. Cones don't go there nick (@phuckyounick) July 16, 2017Some suggested that the green mass could be from the grease trap. The man shared some more photos from different angles to prove that the tray was not a grease trap. And to those who slammed him for shirking his responsibility, he defended himself by saying only managers cleaned the ice cream and drunk machines at McDonalds.Cones go here pic.twitter.com/TD00PWIq7F nick (@phuckyounick) July 17, 2017This is the side of the ice cream machine! It's not from a grease trap pic.twitter.com/nMpnFxAvZ4 nick (@phuckyounick) July 17, 2017However, there were others who believed his claims. I just ate McDonald's today and y'all got that nasty shit going on. The crazy part my fat ass will still eat there pic.twitter.com/hLX4dMMeiq TRINITY (@lilglossyhoney) July 16, 2017Yeah I worked for McDonald's for over 4 years and that's by far the nastiest one I've ever seen lol J G (@JxGilly) July 17, 2017While the authenticity of the tweets is not yet clear, the man claimed to have lost his job because of his revelations. He also admitted he was planning to leave the job anyway. I strategically planned this because I start working at my new job Friday. I planned on losing my job, he said.This came out of McDonald's ice cream machine in case y'all were wondering... pic.twitter.com/DTXXpzE7Ce nick (@phuckyounick) July 14, 2017I got fired from McDonald's. I strategically planned this because I start working at my new job Friday. I planned on losing my job. nick (@phuckyounick) July 20, 2017His tweet has received more than 13,600 retweets and 15,800 likes since he posted it on July 14.Do you believe this mans allegations Tell us in the comments below.