Man found dead at Delhi police station, kin allege foul play.
An alleged suspect in a kidnapping case was found hanging inside the washroom of the Jahangirpuri police station in north Delhi on Wednesday, hours after he was called by the cops for interrogation.The police claimed it was an unprovoked suicide and denied use of force. An internal inquiry as well as a magisterial probe is in process, police said. The relatives of the deceased suspect foul play in the death.The dead man is 32-year-old Raj Kumar. A native of Kasganj in UP, Kumar was unmarried and worked as a security guard at a government school in Pitampura till a few months ago.During his stint at that school, he entered into a relationship with a married woman who worked as a peon. Their relationship ended a few months ago and Kumar quit the job and returned to his village, said a police officer.The woman went missing a few months ago, prompting her husband to file a police complaint and a habeas corpus petition at the Delhi High Court.The womans husband suspected five-six persons. Kumar was one of them, said the officer. A team was sent to Kumars village but when he was found unavailable, he was instructed to report to the Jahangirpuri police station.Kumar was confident he had no role in the womans disappearance. He willingly arrived in Delhi on Tuesday and visited the police station, said Kumars friend, Dharmendra, who dropped him at the police station around 3 pm.Citing the magisterial enquiry, the police refused to share either the sequence of events or the circumstances leading to his death. But Kumars relatives quoted investigators as saying he was let off around 10.30 pm.The investigating officer told me my uncle was allowed to go at 10.30 pm. The same officer tells me the suicide happened at 2 am, over three hours later, said Kumars nephew, Ankit Pachauri.Pachauri and other family members suspected that Kumar could have been physically and emotionally tortured, because of which he killed himself.A request for post-mortem by a board of doctors is being made. All mandatory actions are being taken, said Vijayanta Arya, additional DCP (north-west). She said neither was Kumar arrested nor did any evidence of his involvement in the womans disappearance emerge in Tuesdays questioning..