Assam people slam Centre as PM visits flood-hit Gujarat.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi?s aerial survey of flood-affected areas in his home state Gujarat on Tuesday and the announcement of Rs 500 crore as relief haven?t gone down well in Assam.Many in Assam, where floods wreaked havoc in 29 of the state?s 32 districts this month and claimed 77 lives till date, have vented ire on social media accusing the Centre of neglect.The state government has estimated that the total damage caused by the recent floods is nearly Rs 2,939 crore. The Centre is yet to announce any interim flood-relief package for Assam.?Over 70 died in Assam flood. Modi sends junior minister (Kiren) Rijiju. Flood in Gujarat. Modi flies himself. Why two separate standards?? questioned journalist Atanu Bhuyan on Twitter.While Modi conducted an aerial survey of two flood-ravaged districts in Gujarat, a seven-member central team led by Union home ministry joint secretary VS Sekhar arrived in Guwahati to assess the situation.?Forget the announcement of an aid package, the PM didn?t even consider visiting Assam himself or sending a senior minister. It clearly shows Centre?s biased attitude to our state,? farmers activist Akhil Gogoi told media on Wednesday.Villagers use a boat as they row past partially submerged houses at a flood-affected village in Morigaon district in Assam. 
							(Reuters Photo)
						Nearly 1.32 lakh people were displaced by the floods and had to seek shelter in 363 relief camps. Over 15,700 flood affected people were evacuated by rescue teams in 21 districts.Flood waters have receded in many areas due to clear skies in the past week, but 9 districts still remained inundated and 4,716 people continue to take shelter in relief camps in five districts.While the state government claims adequate relief was provided to all flood affected, there are accusations of laxity in rescue and relief efforts. Ministers of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government were heckled by affected residents at several places for their late response.The so-called step-motherly attitude of Centre towards Assam has given fodder to opposition parties in the state as well.?Assam floods claimed 76 lives, Narendra Modi never visited and his government has not released adequate funds,? former Congress chief minister Tarun Gogoi tweeted on Tuesday.PM @narendramodi rushed to #Gujarat & announced 500 Cr interim relief & Ex-gratia of 2 Lakh for flood victims & 50 thousand for injured..1/1 https://t.co/4gMEpyp7KF? Tarun Gogoi (@tarun_gogoi) July 25, 2017President of the opposition All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) Badruddin Ajmal also requested the PM to ?spare some time for the people of Assam? and visit the state.Many on social media connected Modi?s decision to visit Gujarat instead of Assam with the upcoming assembly polls in the western state.?Floods killed many in BJP ruled Gujarat and Assam. Where will Modi go, announce relief for? The state going to elections, where else,? Rajnath Kashmiri tweeted.