Railway Ministry plans integrated ticketing system .
The railway ministry plans to introduce its ambitious integrated ticketing system in the next three years and Mumbai will be the first city to experience it. The project will be implemented in the city on a pilot basis and if its successful, it will be introduced in other metro cities. Primarily a Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) project, the system will integrate all public transport  BEST buses, local trains, metros, black-and-yellow taxis and autorickshaws. The ministry hopes that more than 80 % of the citys suburban commuters will opt for the all-in-one tickets. Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) and Central and Western Railway officials are currently studying different ways to sync the new software with the existing system. The project will be executed in two stages: in the first, the software will be integrated with the existing ticketing system and in the second, entry and exit gates will be installed at stations. Railway authorities also hope the new ticketing system will reduce losses as it will need less manpower. The railway panels findings will be submitted to MMRDA and the railway board in August. MRVC will present the railways perspective to the MMRDA, which is the primary organisation for the integrated ticketing system, said Prabhat Sahai, chairman and MD, MRVC.Sources said chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is keen on the project.  The Brihamumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), which runs bus services, and Mumbai Metro One Private Limited (MMOPL), which manages the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro, have agreed to modify their ticketing systems for the new tickets. With new Metro lines coming up in the city, MMRDA said the single ticketing system would be a boon to travellers. The consultants for the Metro lines will submit a detailed report to the body on the systems implementation. According to sources, the MMRDA is likely to float a tender for the single ticket system in October.