Kovind is the first Indian President from Uttar Pradesh.
Former Bihar governor Ram Nath Kovind took oath as the 14th President of India today at the historic Central Hall in Parliament.With this, Ram Nath Kovind, who was born in Paraukh village of Kanpur, is also the first Uttar Pradesh-born President of India. A two-time Rajya Sabha member, Ram Nath Kovind is also the second Dalit to become the President after K R Narayanan. A LOOK AT SOME OF THE SINGULAR RECORDS OF PREVIOUS PRESIDENTS OF INDIA:Dr Rajendra PrasadHe was the first President of an Independent India, and remains the only President to be elected thrice. He was elected unanimously as the President by the Constituent Assembly when India became a Republic in 1950. He served as President from January 26, 1950 to 14 May, 1962.Neelam Sanjiva ReddyThe seventh presidential election was held in 1977 and Neelam Sanjiva Reddy was elected unopposed to the post, the only one to have achieved this feat till date. While 37 candidates had filed their nomination for the election, the returning officer found only Reddy's nomination valid. Reddy was 63 years old when he took over as the President, making him the youngest to hold the office till date. He is also the only president to have contested twice in the presidential election--losing the election to V V Giri in 1969 by a slim margin, and getting elected unopposed in 1977. R VenkataramanR Venkataraman was elected to the post of President in 1987 and became the first President to have a foreign-born spouse. Janaki Venkataraman was born in Pegu, Myanmar. Later, K R Narayanan became the second President to have a foreign-born spouse. Usha Narayanan was born in Myanmar. In 1950, then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru granted special permission to Narayanan, an IFS officer, to marry a foreign national. K R Narayanan was also the first Dalit to become the country's President.  Dr APJ Abdul KalamAPJ Abdul Kalam, the pioneer of country's space and missile programme, was elected as President of India in 2002. He was the only bachelor to have held the country's highest office.Pratibha PatilIn 2007, Pratibha Patil became the first woman to occupy the post of President. Patil's husband Devisingh Shekhawat became the First Gentleman of India, a first in the history of Independent India.ALSO READ:Jai Shri Ram slogans raised in Parliament after Ram Nath Kovind's swearing in