Not suffering from depression, it's just a big term: Kapil.
Comedian and TV?show host Kapil Sharma has finally spoken on the rumours of his depression. In an interview to Dainik Bhaskar, Kapil cleared the air surrounding his ill health and said that he merely has blood pressure problems, not depression.According to several rumours floating around since past few months, Kapil has been under a lot of stress due to the falling TRPs of his show, The Kapil Sharma Show. ?It (depression) is just a big term for me (laughs). Apart from low blood pressure, I am not at all facing any health issues. I have started taking care of my diet and body. I am perfectly fine now,? he said in the interview.Mumbai: Comedian Kapil Sharma Bollywood actors Riteish Deshmukh and Vivek Oberoi during the promotion of film Bank Chor on the sets of The Kapil Sharma Show in Mumbai, on June 8, 2017. (Photo: IANS)
							(IANS)
						Kapil further explained how was busy juggling between his film and the show which led to stress. ?For the past few months, I was juggling my time between The Kapil Sharma Show and my film, Firangi. I was working day and night. I wasn?t getting much time to take care of my health. Also, I had stopped doing regular exercises and workouts. This led to developing low blood pressure. Now, I have changed my routine and my health is completely fine,? he said.When asked whether the falling TRPs were the cause behind his ill health, he refuted the claims entirely. ?Believe me or not, I get to hear such kind of news from the media people itself. Nobody from Sony Channel has come to me and spoken about it. In fact, the channel people have always been kind to me; they support me a lot. ?The Kapil Sharma Show? is not going off air; we are busy shooting for it,? he said.There were also rumours that Kapil made his guests on the show wait for hours before cancelling on them. ?I was under a lot of pressure and that?s fair enough. We all have our ups and down in terms of health; don?t we? I felt sick and that?s okay. It was genuine and people around me understood that. However, I did not keep anyone waiting on the set,? he said.TRPs for The Kapil Sharma Show took a nosedive since his PR nightmare of a fight with co-actor Sunil Grover on a flight where he got physically violent with him.Follow @htshowbiz for more