Randeep visits war memorial ahead of Kargil Vijay Diwas.
Actor Randeep Hooda describes his recent visit to Kargil?s Drass sector as ?overwhelming? and urges everyone to visit the war memorial at least once. The actor visited the  memorial ahead of the Kargil Vijay Diwas , which is on July 26. After his return, the actor chronicled his experience via Instagram and Twitter through words, photos and videos. Randeep?s visit was part of an event organised by an NGO. He was also accompanied by singer-composer Kailash Kher. ?The experience was surreal, standing amidst those who have been safeguarding our nation at such harsh terrains. It has to be with so much discipline and, obviously, passion for their jobs. I felt belittled standing amidst them and at the same time, there was a sense of pride. As many as 559 people died in the war and I was reading their names. People from various parts of India coming together at the line of control, laying low their lives for the sovereignty of our country,? says Randeep, sounding deeply moved.    Over the weekend I had the honour and the privilege to visit #Drass where the actual battle of #Kargil took place. I felt belittled even as my chest was feeling full of pride and sorrow. We lost 559 citizens of our country in that war. With the sacrifice of these brave sons we won. Got to know so much more about what happened at the #WarMemorial in #Drass. Every Indian worth his or her salt must go and visit the biggest war memorial in our country. Just to stand there and hear Havildar Kuber Singh and see for themselves the terrain and the sacrifice of our boys standing there defending our borders so that we can pursue our lives in security. The Army and its personnel don't need our sympathy nor encouragement. They are going about doing their job that they have taken an oath to do. It's an organisation that is unfazed about the political going ons and does what it has to do to protect our sovereignty. I had a great time interacting with officers and Jawans. The level of our Jawans has gone so high in the last few years that it is a testament to the citizens wanting to join the forces. The officers are so apt, sympathetic, professional and duty bound that it leaves most of our civilian leaders wanting. I would like to thank Mrs Ruchi Chauhan Khan for making this possible and the great entertainment provided by many,especially, @KailashKher that the evening among the windy mountains was filled with laughter and song. I would also like to thank GOC Major General Cariappa for his gentle and inspiring personality. A towering man with a vision for the future of the army and personal development of its personnel - Brigade Commander and double Shaurya Chakra awardee Brigadier Bhalla, a man of great grace and full of laughter, no doubt a man who commands respect and love of his troops - The Deputy Commander Colonel Pandey for his empathetic and resourceful company - Colonel Vikrant Sharma, a man of great organisational skills and the most disarming smile - and last but not the least by any standards the officer's mess Haviladar "the boxer" who's hospitality I shall never forget. It's been the most unforgettable and inspiring trips of my life. Thank you Jai Hind A post shared by Randeep Hooda (@randeephooda) on Jul 24, 2017 at 1:54am PDTSharing more from his journey, Randeep talks about visiting the war memorial, the biggest in the country, on the way from Srinagar to Leh. ?Many must have already visited the place and I think a lot more people should go there to get an idea of the never ending sacrifice of our soldiers. Those deployed there are not just soldiers, they are also citizens of this country...they are like you and me. They are chosen to do this job but that doesn?t mean that their lives are meant to be like that. Such bravehearts deserve our utmost love and support for sacrificing their precious lives for the nation,? he says, adding that he had a wonderful time meeting army officers and jawaans. Randeep also had the chance to meet their families, who are their support system.?????? ??? ?? ???? ??,??????? ??? ?? ???? ?? honoured to see preparations #VijayDivas #WarMemorial #Drass #Kargil must visit #JaiHind @adgpi pic.twitter.com/EQWHrEIK5b? Randeep Hooda (@RandeepHooda) July 24, 2017Talking about his memories of the 1999 Kargil War, Randeep says, ?I was studying in Australia at that time when we heard about the war. Not just the war, the after effects also bothered me. And thinking about  Kargil Vijay Diwas, I am reminded of it all over again. Such things also make me realise that it?s high time we understand what these people are doing rather than sitting in the comfort of our homes and politicising such situations,? he adds.One of the photos Randeep shared from his visit to Kargil?s Drass sector.Follow @htshowbiz for more 