Sunny denies reports of Yash Raj Films launching his son .
Bollywood actor Sunny Deol refuted the reports that his son Karan was set to be launched by Yash Raj Films.There were reports that Karan was gearing up to be launched by Yash Raj Films but it could not happen when Aditya Chopra asked the young actor to sign a three-film deal, which Sunny objected to. It wasnt like that. Only we were supposed to launch him. But today anyone says anything and it becomes news. But the fact is, only we were supposed to do it, Sunny said. The film, reportedly titled Pal Pal Dil Ke Paas, will be directed and produced by Sunny.Actors Sunny Deol, Dharmendra and Bobby deol during the trailer launch of their upcoming film 'Poster Boys' in Mumbai, on July 24.
							(IANS)
						The 59-year-old actor also refuted reports that he objected to Sunny Leones item number in Bhaiyyaji Superhitt due to alleged family objections. People keep saying anything. Who am I to say no. I never interfere in my films. I prefer to remain silent, he said.Sunny was speaking at the trailer launch of his next, Poster Boy. The film, directed by Shreyas Talpade, is a remake of the Marathi film Poshter Boyz. Bobby Deol, Shreyas and Dharmendra were also present at the launch.Asked about choosing Sunny to play one of the character, Shreyas told media on Monday: I wanted Sunny sir to play the role because it adds credibility to the film. Its a little sensitive subject, and Sunny being a part of the film adds the credibility that it isnt an unpleasant or cheap film and its a family entertainer.Shreyas said the new film is not completely different from the original but there are certain changes. There were not major changes. That script itself was very powerful so we tried to retain that as much possible. We just did little bit tweaking, and tried to do away with some mistakes which we may have done in the original. We have tried to make it even better, Shreyas said.Shreyas Talpade, Sunny Deol, Dharmendra and Bobby Deol in Mumbai, on July 24.
							(IANS)
						Bobby, who is playing one of the lead characters, spoke about the dialect he had to use for the film.He said: It was a big challenge to speak in pure Hindi. Shreyas and I did a lot of workshops together. It was amazing how Shreyas knew everyones dialogues. I wanted him to say my dialogues too. It was a difficult task, but also it was a lot of fun and exciting.The film, which stars Sunny, Bobby Deol and Shreyas, also features a voice-over by Ajay Devgn. Shreyas said the Shivaay actor came on board instantly. We wanted the voice-over in the beginning to be impactful. He is a very dear friend, very supportive. He is what you call a very secure actor. I just showed him the trailer and asked if he would do the voice-over and he readily obliged. I cant thank him enough, Shreyas said.I had heard that the Marathi film was a big hit. But after watching this trailer, I can say that this will be a bigger hit than the original. I think Poster Boys 2 should also come out. Shreyas should start working on a sequel, Dharmendra said.Poster Boys is scheduled to release on September 8. Follow @htshowbiz for more