 Drug peddlers coat eatables with LSD to avoid detection.
Believe it or not, eatables laced with LSD are the emerging modus operandi followed by drug peddlers across the country, agencies dealing against narcotics claimed. Be it biscuits or nut crackers, drug peddlers are lacing them with LSD and selling them at higher price.The revelation came days after Task Force sleuths arrested nine people, including two Nigerians, in two separate cases at Masab Tank and Banjara Hills in Hyderabad. Along with 300 grams of cocaine, 42 grams of MDMA and three biscuits laced with LSD were recovered.According to sources, during interrogation, they told police that to save themselves from being caught at the airport, they started coating LSD on eatables such as biscuits and nut crackers. They further told police that this is not the first time they have laced eatables with LSD. "Most of the drugs, especially LSD, coming from Germany to India are being coated on eatables," they reportedly confessed.LSD LACED EATABLESThe officers said that earlier LSD-laced sugar cubes were seized, but this is the first time drugs in biscuits were found. "These biscuits were detected and seized only because the peddlers were carrying another drug as well, which was detected in the scanning machine," an officer involved in the investigation said.After recording the confessional statement, the inputs were shared with the narcotics department. Also, security agencies at the airports, including CISF, have been alerted about the new modus operandiSpeaking to Mail Today, a senior officer of the narcotics department said, "It is very difficult to identify adultered eatables and eatables laced with LSD. But officers scanning passengers' luggage at the airport have been asked to keep tight vigil on eatables in their bags. Not only this, but they have been advised to check biscuits or nut crackers if they are in small quantity."Sources also said peddlers - mostly from African countries - have been carrying small consignments which they hide between the clothes or in false cavities in their bags."They also carry nut cracker packets in their hand bags to avoid suspicion. They keep the seal open and tend to eat some of them to fool security officers. Those arrested hid the eatables laced with LSD in a small false cavity inside the packet to fool the officers," a source said, quoting one of the confessional statements.Meanwhile, preliminary interrogation and analysis of cell phone data of the peddlers revealed they might have sold drugs to more than 100 people in the last one and half years."Most buyers are young, especially college students," said an officer in the Task Force. In a separate case, West Zone Task Force arrested three people and seized 11 LSD bots and three cell phones. The accused are P Revanth, Irfan Najeeb Khan and Zain Khan.