Privileged to walk on same path as Kalam, Pranab da: Kovind.
Ram Nath Kovind took oath as India?s 14th President on Tuesday at a ceremony in the Central Hall of Parliament.Outgoing President Pranab Mukherjee and Kovind arrived in the Central Hall in a ceremonial procession, where Ram Nath Kovind was administered the oath by Chief Justice of India JS Khehar.Vice-president Hamid Ansari, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan, Union ministers, governors, chief ministers, ambassadors and other diplomats, MPs and senior civil and military officers were among those present.Watch the full ceremony:Highlights: 2:50 pm: Israeli embassy wishes Ram Nath Kovind on taking office over Twitter.2:12 pm: Former president Pranab Mukherjee given Guard of Honour at Rashtrapati Bhawan.1:45 pm: Ex-president Pranab Mukherjee tweets congratulatory wishes to President Ram Nath Kovind from private Twitter handle.My heartiest congratulations to Shri Ram Nath Kovind, Hon'ble President of India. Wishing you success and happiness in the years to come.? Pranab Mukherjee (@CitiznMukherjee) July 25, 2017.1: 38 pm: Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari welcomes President Ram Nath Kovind .1: 36 pm: MoS home Kiren Rijiju to formally receive former ex-president Pranab Mukherjee da at 10, Rajaji Marg at his designated house 2.20 pm. 1:34 pm:  The people welcome Shri Ram Nath Kovind as the President of India. His humble beginnings and wisdom will guide us towards a New India: Union minister Piyush Goyal.1: 00 pm: PM Modi congratulates Ram Nath Kovind on taking oath, says very inspiring address by President, which beautifully summed up the essence of India?s strengths, democracy and diversity.12:45pm: The President arrives at the official residence Rashtrapati Bhavan after the oath-taking ceremony. Ahead of the ceremony, the military secretary to the president had invited Kovind and his wife Savita to the Rashtrapati Bhavan, where former president Pranab Mukherjee was waiting for them in the study. 12:35pm:?In tune with tradition, Kovind leaves with Mukherjee to escort the outgoing president to his new residence.   12:30pm:?A 21-gun salute given in the honour of President Kovind. 12:25pm:?The new President will leave for Rashtrapati Bhavan where an inter-services guard of honour will be given to him in its forecourt. Mukherjee will leave for his new address - 10 Rajaji Marg.According to tradition, the new President (Kovind)?escorts the outgoing president to his/her new address.  12:32pm:?The ceremony ends with the national anthem. 12:30pm:??We need to sculpt a high-growth economy, an educated economy and an egalitarian society. This was the vision of Mahatma Gandhi and Deen?Dayal Upadhyay.? -- Closing statements of President Kovind.   12:?27pm:?I come from a very simple background and the journey has been long: President says in his speech?We are diverse, yet united and one,? says President Kovind. The election of Kovind -- a Dalit -- as President is expected to ?repair and consolidate? the BJP?s social base in Uttar Pradesh after Yogi Adityanath (a Rajput) was made the chief minister. 12:25pm:?President Kovind?s Twitter account is now activated. His first tweet -- ?Honoured to be sworn in as the 14th President of India; would be carrying out my responsibilities with all humility #PresidentKovind. I bow to the 125 crore citizens of this great nation and promise to stay true to the trust they have bestowed on me #PresidentKovind? President of India (@rashtrapatibhvn) July 25, 201712:20pm:?All citizens are creators and developers of India -- those who open startups, those who work in offices, those who are serving the public, those women who work and also take care of families, those who work for their nation:?Kovind  12:16pm:?Kovind addresses Parliament,thanks them for trusting me with the responsibility to be the President of India.  ?In this Parliament, we have differed with each other on various issues and discussed them reverently. This is the beauty of democracy.?? ?I feel privileged to walk on the same path as Dr Radhakrishnan, Dr  Abdul Kalam and Pranab da.??We are now in the second half of the 21st century... We are proud of India?s diversity, heritage, development, and all its citizens,? says Kovind in his address to Parliament.   12:?15pm:?Kovind begins reading oath as President of India. 12:10pm: Opposition presidential nominee Meira Kumar sits in the first row of the audience at Kovind?s swearing-in ceremony. 12:06pm:?The national anthem plays in central hall of Parliament. 12pm:?Kovind, outgoing president Pranad Mukherjee, Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan and CJI?JS?Khehar enter Parliament. 11:50am:?Ram Nath Kovind and Pranab Mukherjee are on their way to Parliament11:30am:?President-elect Ram Nath Kovind leaves for Rashtrapati Bhavan from his 10, Akbar Road residence.11am: Lok Sabha adjourned till 3pm to allow members to participate in the President?s swearing-in ceremony.10.50am: Kovind will accompany President Mukherjee on the way to Parliament from Rashtrapati Bhavan in the morning. Both of them will travel in the same car.10.35am:?Kovind?s oath taking ceremony will being at12.15pm and will be held in the Central Hall of Parliament.10.30am: President-elect Ram Nath Kovind and his wife visit Rajghat.