E-rickshaws to get charging points in parking lots of Delhi.
To streamline the parking of e-rickshaws in the city and avoid congestion on roads, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to set up charging points for the battery-operated vehicles at select parking lots in its jurisdiction.The agency has finalised six spots where the facility would be developed by next month end.  The e-rickshaw drivers would be able to charge their vehicles at nominal prices during night.The location include  the North MCD parking lots near Badli Metro station, village Singhalpur (Haryana irrigation canal), Railway Reservation Office near Kela godown, Keshavpuram and Sector 11, Rohini.?Most of the parking lots remained vacant during the night. So, we have decided to appoint a contractor who will install the charging points at the selected parking lots, collect a minimal amount from e-rickshaws and allow them to charge their vehicles here,? said Praveen Gupta, commissioner, North MCD.The contractor will also be responsible for maintaining the ?law and order situation at these places? during the night when the e-rickshaws will be charged.According to Gupta, there are various reasons for starting the facility at selected parking lots .?We are choosing locations which are close to internal/arterial roads and far from the main stretches in city. The idea is to avoid jam on the main roads. We have also taken into account the demand for charging faciliyt. For example, there is long requirement for battery charging point for e-rickshaws near DRDO and Delhi University area that?s why among the six parking lots, one is located near DRDO office,? he said further.In future, the agency is also planning to open all the parking lots, developed near the Metro stations as charging points for e- rickshaws. ?This would include the six parking lots which would be developed in North Delhi on Delhi Metro Rail Corporation land. This will also help us to deal with unauthorised parking of vehicles on the roadside,? said a senior North MCD official. According to official, since the e-rickshaws drivers get their most customers from near the Metro stations, a charging facility nearby would be convenient to use for them. 