LeT co-founder urges jihadis to wage war in Northeast India.
After Kashmir, terror looms over Northeast. Banned terrorist organisation Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is now provoking jihadis to wage war in the northeastern states of India. The malice intention of Lashkar came under the radar of security agencies through a video, where its cofounder Amir Hamza is seen instigating his cadre to spread violence in Northeast, including Darjeeling and Sikkim.A recent video, believed to be shot in Lahore on July 19, has left security agencies in a tizzy. Citing example of China military standoff with India over Doklam plateau, Hamza is asking jihadis to break up Indian states."We will fight in Sikkim, we will fight in Bhutan, we will fight in Darjeeling, we will fight in Srinagar," Hamza can be heard saying in the video, which is in possession of Mail Today. Agencies have also authenticated the video clips. Recently, several terror activities came under the radar of security agencies from Northeast states but the fresh threat has raised alarms bells in the Home ministry.Senior officials claim Hamza was seen recently in Lahore and this was his first public appearance since JuD chief Hafiz Saeed's house arrest in January. Hamza, in the video, threatens to create violence in several states of the country. "For one Bangladesh, we will take seven states," says Hamza.He has also praised China and talks about the dispute over the 40-km-long stretch between Doklam and Bangladesh border. This video is the first such proof of Lashkar-e-Taiba's direct involvement in the Northeast and their strategy to work along with China. "if India will send its army in Bhutan to counter China, then along with Pakistan, Chinese troop will enter Srinagar," Hamza said in the video.Hamza was designated global terrorist by US in 2012 and is wanted by India for the November 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai that claimed over 160 lives and left more than 300 injured. He was detained by Pakistan authorities along with 26/11 key operative Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi soon after the attacks. He enjoys the position of number two in Lashkar ranks currently.In the video, Hamza, in his screeching voice, is also asking jihadis to fulfil Saeed's dream of Ghazwa-e-Hind (holy war to capture India). The Ghazwa-e-Hind is a saying some Islamic traditions attribute to Prophet Muhammad, prophesying that army arising from the West will seize India. According to reports, in a separate gathering held this month, Lashkar-e-Taiba-led jihadist commanders met in Islamabad to demand that the Pakistan government should go to war with India to seize Kashmir.Also Watch: Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists sound war cry against India, ask Pakistan to seize Kashmir