Gurugram engineering student jumps to death from 11th floor.
 A 22-year-old engineering student allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the 11th floor of Uniworld City building in Sector 30 at 5.10pm on Friday.The student, identified as Manuj Mehta, used to live with his parents on the third floor of the upscale society and was in the third semester of his engineering course at Northcap University, formerly known as ITM University, in Sector 23A.According to neighbours, Manuj suffered from depression and seemed disturbed for the last few days. However, the reason for his condition is not known yet. Police said he did not leave behind any suicide note.On Friday evening, the society?s guard heard a loud sound and rushed to the spot, where he found the body lying on the ground. He raised the alarm and others too reached to the spot.An officer from the Uniworld City administration said the guard informed their office. ?We called his parents and also informed the police regarding the incident. Everyone was scared and his mother was in a state of shock. It is a critical time for the family,? said a member of the administrative staff.Police said they rushed the victim to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead. His body was handed over to his kin at 11:30am on Saturday after a post-mortem examination, police added.Manuj lived in the society with his mother and stepfather, said a member of the society?s office.Read I Actor suicide in Gurgaon: Bidisha?s husband produced in court, taken on police remand for a dayDeputy commissioner of police (DCP) east, Deepak Saharan, said the incident is being probed from all angles. ?We have asked the victim?s biological father to join the investigation. It will help us get more information,? he said.According to the police, the investigation is being carried out under Section 174 of the Indian Penal Code.?We are investigating the matter and will also get more inputs from his mother and father. As per the initial investigation, it seems like a suicide,? said sub-inspector Narender Kumar of Sector 40 police station.