Kapil and I don't need mediator to resolve feud, says Sunil.
Comedian-actor Sunil Grover has stayed away from the limelight for almost five months now ? he quit The Kapil Sharma Show (TKSS) after a fight with Kapil on board an aircraft. As he turns a year older on August 3, Sunil says that misses his audiences as much as they miss him.Asked about his plans, Sunil says, ?I want to entertain people and remain in this field. This is what I love doing, and have tried to do for all these years. Right now, I?m just in the process of thinking.?Sunil is still reticent about the mid-air brawl that severed his very successful partnership with Kapil. ?Quite often, when you say something, it shows the other person in a very bad light, though unintentionally,? says Sunil. ?What you say is perceived to be the truth and how you see facts might not really be true, and can sound demeaning for the other person. With Kapil, I?ve had a great association, and I have deep gratitude for the platform we shared.?    Neutral gear. A post shared by Sunil Grover (@whosunilgrover) on Jun 20, 2017 at 2:17am PDT Recently, Sunil shot for a special episode as Mashoor Gulati (his popular character on TKSS) to promote Salman Khan?s film Tubelight. Did the episode make him nostalgic? Was there a change of heart about TKSS? ?Mere heart ko hua kya tha jo change hona tha? My cholesterol levels are fine and there?s no blockage in my heart,? quips Sunil.In these five months, many industry colleagues have tried to bring about a patch-up between Kapil and Sunil. The latter says that there?s no need for a mediator. ?I know [Kapil] very well. Why do I need someone else to sort things between us?? says Sunil. ?We still have each other?s numbers and we haven?t changed them. But I?m thankful to those who are [still] taking the initiative; it?s so nice of them. Anyway, the best part is that the comedy didn?t stop and it?s continuing from both ends.?About the news of Kapil not keeping well, owing to the dipping TRPs of his show, Sunil says, ?I heard about this, and I can only say that he should take good care of himself.?Follow @htshowbiz for more