Azaan in my area became louder after Sonu's tweet: Suchitra.
Sonu Nigam?s tweets on early morning azaan had escalated into social media war in April this year. And now, singer Suchitra Krishnamoorthi is being mocked after posting a series of tweets on Sunday, calling azaan at 5 am ?not civilised?. Not one to back down, the singer has said that she is ready to meet people to thrash out this issue, if necessary. She also tells us, ?Just because somebody is threatening you or they don?t like what you?re saying, it doesn?t mean you stop saying what you think is right. I feel [that] after Sonu?s tweet, the azaan in my area has become louder. It?s almost like retaliation.?On Sunday, Suchitra wrote: ?Came home at 4.45am 2 most aggressive / ear shattering call of azaan. Nothing more lowlife & dumb than such extreme imposed religiosity.? Reaction to this has spanned the entire gamut of threats to sexism. Suchitra?s tweets got comments that read: ?Don?t invite troubles ma?am...Sonu Nigam ji had to quit Twitter because of same observation.? ?Ma?am itne acche baal hai aapke, kyu mundwana hai aapko??, ?How dare a woman come home at 4.45 am. Why do good girls come home so late??Speaking to Hindustan Times, Suchitra says how she has tried to tackle the issue of early morning azaan before and been stonewalled. ?I first wrote about this [azaan issue] in 2009 and tried to initiate a dialogue with my then MLA and I was asked to just completely back off. They told me, ?You are a lady, you are alone, don?t take panga.??came home at 4.45 am 2 most aggressive/ ear shattering call of azaan. Nothing more lowlife & dumb than such extreme imposed religiousity? Suchitra (@suchitrak) July 23, 2017well the azaan seems to have gotten louder since his tweet. Its ridiculous. He tweeted from same location as me https://t.co/ZRl06bEewu? Suchitra (@suchitrak) July 23, 2017Sonu Nigam, too, had received a lot of flak after he tweeted against ?forced religiousness? and azaan being played at wee hours. Suchitra feels that each time such a concern is raised, it goes into bizarre spaces. ?What?s this constant threat and character assassination? This is a serious matter, worrying a lot of people. It needs to be addressed and resolved,? she says.The 41-year-old points at the law, which states that loudspeakers can?t be played between certain hours. ?Then how do these people flout [the rule] 365 days a year? The law applies to everybody. I?m not saying that bhajans in a temple or church bells are right either. Any imposition of extreme religiosity against another person?s will is dumb and incorrect.?i wake up at Brahmamuhurt of my own accord & do my prayers & riyaz.& yoga. I dont need public loudspeakers to remind me of my God or my duty https://t.co/7rPSzG1EfB? Suchitra (@suchitrak) July 23, 2017nobody objects to azaan or prayers during decent hours. But to be wakung up entire neighbourhood at 5 am is not civilized https://t.co/PBT94NtuGN? Suchitra (@suchitrak) July 23, 2017But what about those whose religious sentiments get hurt through such tweets? ?Why is everything about the Muslim community always so touchy? Why is everything a threat? Nobody is targeting them. This sense of minority persecution has to go and a dialogue has to be initiated where things can work for the whole community,? Suchitra retorts.A piece i wrote way back in 2009 on the #azaan https://t.co/OZa60IW9Wf? Suchitra (@suchitrak) July 23, 2017Follow @htshowbiz for more