20 killed in suicide blast near office of Pak PM's brother.
A powerful suicide blast rocked Pakistan's Lahore city in the afternoon today after which at least 28 people, including 8 cops, were killed and over 57 left injured.The incident was reported near the residence-cum-office of Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif on the main Ferozpur road, near Arfa Karim tower in Lahore. The attack which was targeted at policemen left eight of them dead including a sub-inspector, an assistant sub-inspector and 6 constables.Lahore police chief Capt (R) Amin Wains said the "target of blast was police". He also confirmed that it was a suicide blast.Eyewitnesses say that a bomb exploded in a parked motorcycle parked on the pathway at the main Ferozpur road near old vegetable market (sabzi mandi) of Lahore.#LahoreBlast footage. 2 died 19 injured. Initial reports pic.twitter.com/fd72joty5gThe blast spread chaos on the streets as locals started evacuation on the nearby buildings. According to Rescue 1122, at least 20 people including policemen have been killed in the blast.An emergency was declared in city hospitals. The condition of several injures is stated to be critical.The chief minister, who is also the brother of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, was in a meeting at his Model Town office when the blast took place.Citing police sources, Geo News reported that a suicide attacker targeted police personnel deployed at the site. The area has been cordoned off by a heavy contingent of security forces and the section of the road has been sealed.COAS shares grief with victim families of Lhr blast. Directs for immediate rescue and relief efforts. Troops reached at site.No words can express the grief which grips my heart right now. Blast destroyed many families, but terrorists can never destroy our resolve..Our blood was spilt on the street but I swear to my Allah that the blood of our innocent martyrs will write end of these cowardly assassins!No group has claimed responsibility for the attack but in the past such blasts have often been carried out by Pakistani Taliban militants.Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said the majority of those killed and wounded were police and warned the death toll could rise.Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif condemned the blast in a statement and "directed for extending best possible medical treatment for the injured".(Additional inputs from agencies) 