Maha farmers to hold 'rasta roko' on Aug 14 for loan waiver.
 Farmers outfits in Maharashtra will restart their protest to demand a blanked loan waiver and implementation of the Swaminathan commissions recommendations across the state by staging rasta roko on August 14. The commission has suggested 50% minimum support price (MSP) to be given to farmers for crops over and above the input cost. They have also appealed to Maratha outfits for their support.The decision was taken in a meeting of the steering committee, apex body of the all the farmers organisations, held on Sunday after conclusion of an awareness march at Pune. The awareness march (Janjagruti Yatra) was started from July 10 to tell people about the alleged injustice being done to farmers.We have decided to take our agitation forward by holding rasta roko on August 14. This agitation will be held across the state with full vigour, said Ajit Nawale, coordinator of the steering committee.Nawale added that they have also asked Maratha outfits to raise the farmers issue during their silent march, which will be held in Mumbai on August 9.He said legislators Bachchu Kadu, Jiva Pandu Gavit and Jayant Patil, who support their agitation, will raise the issue of blanket loan waiver during the monsoon session of the state legislature starting on Monday. Raju Shetti, farmers leader and Swabhimani Paksha chief, said they will intensify the agitation if the government wont accept their demands after August 14.The awareness march was carried out through 26 districts and 14 big rallies were held. Reacting to this, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said some people want to prolong an issue and thats why they use such means. The farmers of the state will show them their place, Fadnavis said.A day after the state government announced a Rs34,000-crore farm loan waiver, the steering committee of the farmers outfits rejected the offer on grounds that it was incomplete. They have given the government time until July 26 to fulfil their demands, failing which they plan to resume their agitation.