Hero Honda Chowk flyover opens in Gurugram.
 Commuting between Jaipur and Delhi via Gurgaon and Manesar is to become smooth and hassle-free, as the bottlenecks on the busy Hero Honda Chowk are set to go with the opening of the eight-lane Hero Honda Chowk flyover on Monday.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which had assigned the project, confirmed that the flyover will open to traffic on Monday.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will inaugurate the flyover. Traffic on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway (NH-8) has been a major challenge for the Gurgaon administration, with  vehicles from multiple points converging on Hero Honda Chowk and resulting in snarls, often stretching to several hours. The flyover project had been proposed to take the load of vehicles on the stretch and facilitate a smooth flow of local and long-distance traffic.With the eight-lane flyover likely to ensure smooth and uninterrupted flow of long-distance traffic, local commuters will find it easy to move from one side of the expressway to the other. It used to be a Herculean task earlier owing to the convergence of vehicles from multiple points.Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Sector 10, said, ?Now, I can cross the expressway at Hero Honda Chowk to reach my office at Sector 35. I won?t have to travel 3km to Rajiv Chowk before taking the U-turn to reach office. The opening of the flyover will come as a huge relief for me and thousands of fellow commuters.?Traffic management during the construction of the flyover had been a challenge for the city traffic police, with the convergence of vehicles adding to the chaos. ?Although there were many hurdles along the way, we are delighted that the flyover is now ready to open to traffic. The trial run has been conducted successfully. We are through with installation of lights on the flyover and have also placed cat eyes and blinkers wherever necessary,? said Ashok Kumar Sharma, project director, NHAI, adding that the flyover will go a long way to resolving the traffic problem on the stretch.Read I Rain plan: Gurgaon?s Hero Honda Chowk flyover to offer two-way traffic movementThe 1.4 km flyover is part of a three-layered crossing involving the flyover, underpass and surface road.The construction of the flyover began in November, 2014 and set a deadline of 30 months.Rambir Singh, a resident of Narsinghpur, said, ?We are relieved that the flyover will open at long last. Commuting on Hero Honda Chowk has been fraught with risks since the NH-8 opened in 2008. For pedestrians, cyclists and bikers, the NH-8 crossing was a death trap and proved fatal for many. Residents have had to wage a long battle to bring this flyover project to fruition.?