Mumbai's Juhu beach to be redeveloped.
The eight entry points of the citys most popular beach are all set to get a facelift. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) earlier redid a 5-km stretch of the Juhu beach. While the first phase of the project faced opposition from some citizens and activists, Juhu residents said they welcome the beautification work. According to a plan proposed by BJP legislator Ameet Satam, each of the eight access points to the beach will have 5m high walls, bollards to restrict vehicles, ramps and steps with railings, welcome signs and a few lights.  We will use paver blocks and gabion steps. Steps and railings will make the beach accessible for senior citizens, said an official. While activists were unhappy with the plan to set up multi-coloured lights on the beach, they appreciated the BMC's effort to make the beach more accessible. Natural spaces should not be tampered with. Redeveloping the entrances is a good move but any beautification should not take away the natural feel of the beach, said Ashoke Pandit, convener, NGO Save Open Spaces. Zahida Banatwala of the Juhu Citizens' Welfare Group (JCWG) said, Every monsoon, the access points get damaged. So, this is a good move, but the BMC is still doing a shoddy job of cleaning the beach. Smita Chakravarty of the NGO, Juhu-Soul of the City, told HT, Apart from the redevelopment, we also need a play area for children on the beach. Satam estimated the redevelopment of the access points to cost Rs80 lakh, under a Rs12-crore Juhu beach tourism plan. Of the eight points, Birla Lane, Military road, Granth lane and Silver beach lane have already been redeveloped. The first phase of the project included themed-lighting and redevelopment of the central Chowpatty. This is a one of its kind lighting and wont hamper the natural feel of the beach, said Satam. Officials said the second phase will be completed by the end of August and the themed-lighting will be inaugurated by CM Devendra Fadnavis.