Man carrying drugs worth ?2 crore arrested at Mumbai Airport.
The arrest of a 32-year-old man with around 2kg of drug methaqualone at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport has led to suspicion that he was working for a syndicate, said an officer of Air Intelligence Unit (AIU). The value of the seized drug was Rs2 crore, said the customs department.Suresh Kumar Nagaraja from Chennai was arrested early on Saturday. He was to take a flight to Kuala Lumpur. ?We grew suspicious because he was carrying just one bag, which we decided to scan,? said the officer. A sniffer dog, Urny which is trained to detect drugs, found something suspicious in the bag. Upon examining the bag, the police found that the drugs were hidden in a cavity made of cardboard. Nagarajan was off loaded and questioned which revealed that more people were involved. ?Nagarajan is a carrier, who stayed in a hotel in Dongri. He booked his flight tickets from there,? said the officer.The AIU is investigating the source of the drugs and whether it was meant for his handler in Kuala Lumpur. Sources revealed that there are strict anti-drug laws in Malaysia where the crime can be punished with death. AIU suspects that the Nagarajan may have smuggled drugs earlier too. Last week, Nagarajan and his handler visited Mumbai and stayed in the same hotel in Dongri. He has been sent to judicial custody. On March 26, AIU arrested a woman for carrying 4.9kg of methaqualone.Unconvincing answers nail two fliers with gold valued at ?1.2 croreThe Air Intelligence Unit (AIU)?on?Saturday arrested two Indian-origin women from Singapore and Malaysia at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA) for trying to smuggle gold worth Rs1.2crore . The gold weighed more than 2kg. A man who was waiting outside the airport was also arrested.The smuggling bid came to light when one of the passengers told officials that she came from Singapore to India for shopping. They were not taken in.The two women were identified as Santaletchmi Superamaniam, 41, from Malaysia, and Magisvary Jairaman, 59, from Singapore. They arrived from Singapore at 3pm. ?We asked Superamaniam about the purpose of her visit. She told us that it was shopping. We didn?t find it convincing,? said a senior officer.Superamaniam?s questioning revealed that she was accompanied by another woman. Subsequently, Jairaman was intercepted, which led to more seizure. ?The passengers were wearing jewelry on their waist and on their hands to avoid suspicion,? said the officer. The passengers revealed that a man was waiting outside the airport to collect the gold from them. He was picked up by a team outside the airport. ?The women are mere carriers and each were to be paid 500 Singapore dollars,? said the officer.The trio was produced before a holiday court on Sunday that has remanded them to judicial custody.