Noida housing society allows banned maids to resume work.
Residents of Mahugan Moderne housing complex who had decided not to allow the domestic helps who had stormed the society and taken part in the protest on July 12, have gone back on their decision due to dependence on helps.Many residents have rehired helps who were caught throwing stones and creating a ruckus in the society on July 12.On July 16, residents had decided that around 60 helps caught on camera supporting the mob would be banned. It was decided that only those domestic helps who did not take part in the protest and share a good rapport with their employers would be allowed to resume work.However, the unity among the residents which was appreciated by many seems to have come to an end. Many have now hired those who took part in the events, after giving an undertaking, in writing, that they would take the responsibility of the domestic help in case of any problem.?Yes, few residents have hired helps, whom we banned, after giving an undertaking. It?s their decision and we can?t interfere with that. We are, again, verifying the documents of all the helps working in the society to avoid any issue in the future,? said Alam Negi, an official from JLL, a firm providing services to the apartment.Harshu Sethi, a resident who faced severe criticism after allegations surfaced that she had assaulted Zora Bibi, her domestic help, said that working people are dependent on helps for their daily chores.?These days, both women and men are busy with work and are dependent on helps. I don?t blame them for hiring banned helps because it?s not possible to bring around 2,000 families on the same platform. People who haven?t faced a situation like mine will never understand what I had to go through,? said Sethi.?I was saved by around 200 families from the society. Around 1,000 families are still united in their decision to not hire banned helps,? she said.On July 13, the society had banned all helps from entering the premises to protest against the ?hooliganism? created by supporters of Zora Bibi. All the residents had come together and decided to manage without domestic helps till they come up with a permanent solution to avoid such incidents in the future.Residents faced a riot-like situation on July 12, when a mob stormed into the society premises and vandalised Harshu Sethi?s house. Over 300 people had gathered at the gates of the Mahagun Moderne around 6am, alleging that Harshu had assaulted Zora. The crowd had managed to overpower the security guards and forcefully entered the premises. Harshu?s house was ransacked by the mob.