Mithali first-ever captain to lead India in 2 ODI WC finals.
Mithali Raj knows it will be a special occasion for her and Jhulan Goswami when India take part in their second Womens Cricket World Cup final, 12 years after losing the summit clash of the showpiece event.India were beaten by Australia back in 2005 but banished those demons by knocking out the reigning World Champions in a dramatic semi-final in Derby.That 36-run win earned India a spot at the Womens Cricket World Cup 2017 final where they will face hosts England in front of a sold-out at the home of cricket in London.READ|India vs England, Womens Cricket World Cup:History awaits Mithali Raj & Co.This will be the India captains last Womens Cricket World Cup and shes determined to make it extremely difficult for England to earn their third tournament success on home soil.It was an innings for the ages, but how did @ImHarmanpreet's epic 171* evolve during #AUSvIND at #WWC17https://t.co/JJJgzJFO8h pic.twitter.com/q9wIxSsCjW Cricket World Cup (@cricketworldcup) July 22, 2017For me and Jhulan (Goswami) it is very special because we are the only players from 2005 still with the team and for us it feels like going back to 2005. We are all very excited to be part of the World Cup final. We knew this tournament wasnt going to be easy but the way the girls have turned up at every situation when the team needed! said Mithali Raj.Jhulan Goswami will be taking part in her second Women's Cricket World Cup final.
							(Reuters)
						Im so happy that the girls have given us an opportunity again to be part of the World Cup final. It definitely is not going to be easy for England, but having beaten Australia, I am sure the girls are on a high but it will boil down to how we perform on the day. Playing the hosts in their own country is going to be a challenge but this unit is up for it.England, meanwhile, qualified for the final with a dramatic two-wicket win over South Africa with Anya Shrubsole hitting the winning run in the final over.India are in their first ICC Women's World Cup Final since 2005. #MithaliRaj feels a lot has changed since thenhttps://t.co/dVjoDRrvgT pic.twitter.com/PKbFl3Km8A Cricket World Cup (@cricketworldcup) July 22, 2017READ|Celebrate Harmanpreet Kaur, dont compare her with me: Kapil DevThe hosts have lost just once in the tournament so far, a 35-run defeat to India in the opening game of the tournament in Derby.Since then England have gone seven games unbeaten to reach Lords but captain Heather Knight believes there is still more to come from her side.We keep finding ways to win at the moment, we havent quite put the perfect performance together, wed readily admit that. Theres still one game to go and if we put a perfect performance in then, Ill be a very happy captain. Were delighted to get to the final. We back the depth in our team and were finding ways to win at the moment, she said.The plan was to get to Lords and sing our song and were one step closer to that. It was a massive carrot going into the semi-final and lucky we had the wise head of Jenny Gunn to get over the line, so were delighted.