Bihar class 10 student's marks up from 0 to 94 after recheck.
The Bihar Board faced massive embarrassment after more than 50 per cent of class 10 students failed in the examination this year. Hundreds of angry students blamed the evaluation system put in place this year where they alleged that incompetent examiners evaluated the answer sheets. It was also reported that primary school teachers were assigned the task of evaluating answer sheets of Class 10 subjects of which they had no clue.Under pressure after a disastrous performance of candidates, the board then began the process of re-evaluating the answer sheets, the results of which is now declared. What has now been highlighted is the rot prevailing in the Bihar Board. A candidate who scored zero in Math has now secured 94 after re-evaluation. India Today is in possession of the mark sheets of many students who had applied for scrutiny of their papers at the BSS college in Begusarai which was the one of the examination centre. There are not one but more than dozen of candidates whose marks have shots up unexpectedly after re-evaluation. More mix-up was found in subjects like Maths, Science, Hindi and Sanskrit after scrutiny. One of the students who scored zero in Sanskrit has now scores 40 after scrutiny. Another student who got 12 marks in the same subject, had his marks has shoot up to 61.The Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh has now slammed the Bihar Board asserting that the re-evaluation results reveal that initially answers sheets were evaluated by inexpert examiners."I demand a detailed investigation into this mess in the Bihar Board. I believe a judicial inquiry into this is needed", said Shatrughan Prasad Singh, General Secretary of Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh.It is notable that in this year's Class 10th exams of the total 1723911 students who appeared for the examination, only 863950 had passed the examinations.ALSO READ:Toppers scam effect: 64 per cent students fail in class 12 Bihar board examsBihar Board Class 10 results declared, physical verification of toppers done to avoid goof-ups