Priyanka Chopra shares picture with singer Bryan Adams .
Priyanka Chopra shared a picture of herself with Bryan Adams on Wednesday from a special photoshoot. The actor and the singer smiled for the camera in the black and white selfie.    Was so good to see you again @bryanadams happy to be a part of such an amazing project #heartheworldfoundation  A post shared by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Aug 1, 2017 at 12:04pm PDTWas so good to see you again @bryanadams happy to be a part of such an amazing project #heartheworldfoundation, she wrote with the post.     Shooting photos today of the lovely @priyankachopra for #heartheworldfoundation A post shared by Bryan Adams (@bryanadams) on Jul 31, 2017 at 3:47pm PDTBryan also shared a slightly different selfie with her on his own Instagram. Shooting photos today of the lovely @priyankachopra for #heartheworldfoundation, he captioned it.Priyanka had earlier worked with Adams when she was signed for fashion brand GUESS in 2013.The two came together to support Hear The World Foundation which works for people and children with hearing problems. Actor Mads Mikkelsen and former supermodel Cindy Crawford are also a part of the foundation.Priyanka was also spotted by the paps in a rose gold gown with a thigh-high slit. She was strutting about on the sets of her upcoming Hollywood project, Isnt It Romantic, in New York City.   A post shared by Priyanka Chopra Fan Page  (@pcourheartbeat) on Aug 1, 2017 at 11:56am PDT  A post shared by PriyankaChopraGR (@priyankagreek) on Aug 1, 2017 at 8:12pm PDT  A post shared by Katyanka (@_dkatpc) on Aug 1, 2017 at 1:09pm PDT  A post shared by PriyankaChopraGR (@priyankagreek) on Aug 1, 2017 at 8:18pm PDTThe film also stars Rebel Wilson, Liam Hemsworth and Adam DeVine. The movie follows the life of a New York City architect Natalie (Rebel), who works hard to get noticed at her job, but is more likely to be asked to deliver coffee and bagels than to design the citys next skyscraper. She has an encounter with a mugger that renders her unconscious, waking to discover that her life has suddenly become her worst nightmare. Priyanka plays a yoga ambassador while Liam stars as Blake, a handsome client with Adam as Wilsons earnest best friend, Josh.The film has screenplay by Erin Cardillo, Dana Fox and Katie Silberman, and Paula Pell. It is set for a Valentines Day release in 2019.Priyanka is also working on A Kid Like Jake with Claire Danes and Jim Parson and will be seen in Quantico season 3.Follow @htshowbiz for more