Chant mantra against China before prayers: RSS.
The RSS wants to ward off the "asura", or demon, of China with a new "mantra". While the Sangh has advocated a policy of economic assault on Beijing by encouraging Indians to shun the use of Chinese goods and materials in daily lives, even in the process of praying, it has come up with a mantra to be chanted five times before prayers, be it a Hindu household's daily offerings to God or a Muslim's namaz.Even as the rejection of Chinese manufactures used in such daily affairs as household worshipping rituals is meant to attack the ubiquitous presence of China-made goods, thereby denying the neighbour one of the largest consumer markets in the world, it also aims to educate Indians in things they use without knowing them to be of Chinese origin. RSS has maintained that while war is undesirable, if push comes to shove, the country is ready and has, therefore, come out to support the hard stance assumed by India on the tri-junction (India-Bhutan-China) confrontation in the Doklam plateau."Kailash, Himalaya aur Tibet Cheen ki asuri shakti se mukt ho" (Kailash, Himalaya and Tibet be delivered from the demonic clutches of China). This is the mantra or 'sankalp', translated into 'resolve', that the RSS wants every Indian to chant five times before starting their prayers."This will not just hurt the core interest of China, but also infuse spiritual energy in the efforts and will create positive action," senior RSS pracharak and national executive member Indresh Kumar told Mail Today."China has adopted a fundamentally imperialist and expansionist character. It has moved away from Confucianism and has become a votary of violence. The recent entanglement with India has brought India several friends and China has lost many. They have shown that they are neither with India nor the world; rather want to continue the politics of violence. They have captured the territory of several countries such as India, Nepal, Bhutan, apart from having captured Tibet. Doklam was saved from their clutches only as Indian and Bhutanese soldiers pre-empted Chinese design," he added.Kumar believes that China has already been cornered in its recent misadventure among the comity of nations, but the best way to attack the Chinese is to encourage every Indian to resolve to use only Swadeshi or India-made goods and reject Chinese manufactures of all kinds.CHINA A DANGER?"The people of India have come to realise the impending danger that China poses. At a meet in Agra in UP a few days ago, it was decided that no one in India, from any caste, creed or religion should use Chinese goods in daily prayers. Due to invasion of Chinese materials in India, almost three crore Indians and Nepalese nationals have lost livelihood. People of India must also resolve to boycott Chinese goods during the celebration of their chief festivals such as Rakhi, Diwali, Eid or Guru Parv etc. We are capable of breaking China's back not only by confrontation, but by following the non-violent path charted by Lord Buddha," Kumar said. Kumar said the hitherto supporters of China too have now started looking at it with suspicion."China has for long blessed Pakistan with resources and material which have been used to destabilise India through terrorism. "Now, Pakistan included, all nations who have so far colluded with China, fear that the imperialist nation might be using them to counteract India, but might annex them partially or completely in the process," he added.He went on: "We support the non-compromising attitude of the Indian government towards the Indo-China standoff in Doklam and even otherwise. The diplomacy of India and the tough stand it has taken have baffled and disturbed China which is evident in the chiding remarks that they are giving in the media. Chinese disrespect for human rights and democracy have exposed it in front of the world. The world now has come to recognise it to be inhuman, undemocratic and given to violent means."