Atletico de Kolkata renamed to Aamar, Tomar Kolkata (ATK).
For Atletico de Kolkata (ATK) there is lots in a name. Or an acronym.So though Atletico Madrid wont partner anymore, the Kolkata franchise of the Indian Super League (ISL) will continue to be known as ATK, said its principal owner Sanjiv Goenka.And would ATK continue to stand for what is was over the past three years The name of the team is the name of the team and it is ATK. It can also stand for Aamar, Tomar Kolkata, said Goenka. Translated from Bengali, that would mean the team for every Kolkatan.Speaking after the media conference where Goenka said this, a team official said it is premature to say that henceforth ATK would stand for something apart from what was coined three years ago after the La Liga giants came on board with a 25% stake in the ownership.ATM (Atletico de Madrid) will sell their stake to me, said Goenka. ATM and ATK have come to an agreement that they will not be part of ATK going forward. Weve had a good relationship and we continue to be friends.Goenka pointed out that the Madrid club hadnt spent a penny since joining in 2014. Atletico Madrid provided technical support including but not restricted to the coaching staff. They facilitated the pre-seasons in Madrid and were a major help in recruiting foreign players. The consistency of their imports played a major role in ATK winning two championships and being the semi-finalists in another.We have competent technical team. Teddy (Sheringham) and Ashley (Westwood) bring a lot of experience, success and vision. And I hope we can fulfil expectation fans have from us. We have not let our fans down in the last three years, said Goenka.Babes compared to Bagan, EBGoenka said even though the I-League and the ISL would be held simultaneously this season, there is no competition between ATK and Mohun Bagan and East Bengal in terms of garnering support. Mohun Bagan and East Bengal are great clubs with great legacies. Weve grown up watching them, idolising them. We are not competing with anyone. They are dadas, we are bachchas, he said.