 Stack parkings to be developed near 10 Delhi Metro stations.
To meet the increasing demand for parking space near Metro stations, the municipal corporations have decided to construct stack parking lots next to 10 busy stations across the city.Stations that have been identified for the project are Punjabi Bagh, Madipur, Udyog Nagar, Nangloi, Mundka, Pratap Nagar, Ghitorni, Okhla, Indraprastha Estate and Seelampur. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will transfer plots of various sizes to the three civic bodies along the identified stations. Six plots are in north Delhi, three in south and one in east.North corporation commissioner Praveen Gupta said that the process of transferring the land from DMRC to north corporation will be completed soon. ?All the correspondence has been done between the two departments and we have initiated the tendering process for the construction,? said Gupta.The six stack parking lots in north Delhi are expected to provide space for 7,897 cars. According to officials, these parking facilities will help the visitors as well as the residents living in neighbourhood areas as they can park their cars here. Explaining the reasons for constructing multi-level car parking lots, north MCD additional commissioner Renu Jagdev, said: ?The plots near Metro stations are small in size and located along the main roads so we can?t construct multi-level car parking facilities,? she said.With the help of computers, information about the vacant slots would be easily accessible. Customers will be given a computerised receipt, said an official.Under the south corporation, the system is under consideration for implementation at three locations ? Ghitorni, Okhla and Indraprastha Estate. ?We have got the letter from DMRC regarding transferring of plots and we are working over the project of developing car parking lots here soon,? said Puneet Goel, commissioner, SDMC.Meanwhile, North MCD has completed the tendering process for construction of stack parking lots opposite Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital, Asaf Ali Road. 