Couple fakes bad marriage to dupe husband's lover of 3 lakh.
A woman who was attempting to free her lover from his "estranged" wife discovered that the couple had created an elaborate plot to dupe her.The victim, who wanted to marry the man, was asked to pay Rs 6 lakh to the wife as a pre-condition to proceed. After shelling out Rs 3 lakh, when she sought more time to arrange the rest, the couple asked her to let them live in peace.The police have registered an FIR against the duo for rape and criminal intimidation.WHAT HAPPENEDThe 29-year-old victim is based in Chattisgarh and runs an apparel store. She met accused Ajay Gupta through an online portal where she had posted her number to promote her business. They started talking and grew close.The woman, who had just entered into the apparel business, decided to come to Delhi for purchases on the suggestion of the accused. She alleged that Ajay had sex with her after putting sindoor (vermilion) on her forehead and told her that he will apply for court marriage.However, after returning to Chattisgarh she learnt that Ajay was married and had two kids. "Ajay told me that he was fed up with his marriage and wanted to marry me. I tried consoling him and said that he can take a decision and let me know. A while later, I received a call from his alleged estranged wife Uma Gupta who said that even she was fed up with her husband and had no problem with the two of us getting married," the victim told Mail Today.She was asked to pay Rs 6 lakh to the wife first, only after which the marriage could take place."I agreed to this condition. I thought it was my moral responsibility to compensate the woman as she had two kids to take care of. I was in touch with both of them. They used to send me voice notes on messaging apps where I could hear them screaming their hearts out at each other. I was convinced that the two did not want to live together," the woman said.The victim claims that she encashed all her investments and paid Uma on her visits to Delhi. "In the meanwhile, Ajay continued to meet me and maintain physical relations on the promise of marriage," she said.Things got ugly after she told the couple that she had run out of money and would need more time to arrange the cash. "I asked Ajay to come to meet my family and decide the date for marriage and in the meantime I would arrange the money," the woman said. "When he heard this, he started ignoring me. His wife called and pressurised me to arrange the cash if I wanted to marry Ajay."Speaking to Mail Today, the victim said that she had already decided to sell her store and give all the earnings to Uma because after the marriage there would have been no one to run it. "After a few days, I received a call from his wife who asked me to forget about my marriage with Ajay. She also asked me to leave them alone and said they were happy with each other," she said.