6 more songs are ready: RJ Malishka post row on pothole song.
 Radio jockey Malishka Mendonsa, who is at the centre of a very public battle with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after featuring in a music video for an FM channel mocking the civic body?s ill-preparedness this monsoon, hit back in a rather cheeky way on Thursday. Malishka tweeted she is ready with six more songs. She further wrote, ?I am a rapper now. Also a breeder apparently.? The ?breeder? comment referred to the BMC sending a notice to the RJ?s mother on Wednesday for ?breeding dengue? at the Bandra flat, days after Malishka?s video went viral. The video, ?Mumbai, tula BMC var bharavsa nahi ka?? (Mumbai, don?t you trust BMC?) went viral on social media inviting the BMC and Sena?s ire. Malishka thanked Mumbaiites on Twitter for their support. She also received support from activists like Shailesh Gandhi. He tweeted, ?Support Malishka against BMC harassment for singing the truth. Upload your own videos.? Another activist from Bandra, Dolphy D?Souza, said there should be no punitive action against Malishka. He said, ?Instead of taking corrective measures, the BMC is shooting the messenger.? Hashtags like Mumbai with Malishka, I support RJ Malishka and Pothole rap continued to trend on the social-networking website.The Sambhaji brigade also expressed its support for the RJ along with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Anjali Damania. Damania tweeted, ?Malishka every word you said comes from Mumbaikar?s heart. Thanks for having the spine to stand against Shiv Sena and BJP.? BMC officials, however, continued to say the notice was a part of a routine exercise. ?We have surveyed more than 60 lakh houses in the past six months. How will we know it was Malishka?s residence??said a civic official. Meanwhile, the radio channel released another video on Thursday stating Delhi and Mumbai face similar problems. The song ?Sonu, tula RJ var bharavsa nahi ka?? is similar to Malishka?s video released last week. 