Who are they to comment on Kareena's life: Randhir on trolls.
Who the hell are they to interfere in our lives says an angry Randhir Kapoor, referring to the social network trolls pointing fingers at his daughter, Kareena Kapoor Khan, for occasionally taking out me-time while she has a seven-month-old son. Kareena is a modern girl, and she has to go and work out to stay in shape, or else shell get trolled for that, too. She has worked all her life and continues to do that after having a baby, so definitely shes not leaving the child behind; rather, shes striking the perfect balance.The veteran actors anger boiled over while speaking to us on the phenomenon that may be described as lets troll Kareena because she dares to find time for herself.Kareenas pregnancy and later becoming a mother to baby Taimur in December last year has, perhaps, been one of the most celebrated recent occasions in Bollywood. While shutterbugs dont miss a chance to click Kareena and her infant son, nasty tongues have been at work, too.    OUR DUMPLING TURNS 7 MONTHS OLD TODAY  May God bless you always champ.  A post shared by Kareena Kapoor Khan Fanclub (@kareenafc) on Jul 20, 2017 at 6:34am PDT Fingers have been pointed at Bebos parenting  the actor has been trolled for abandoning and neglecting Taimur and instead hosting parties and going to the gym. One such tweet read: Taimur Ali Khan, you are so cute, sadly you will never know true meaning of mom, shame on Kareena Kapoor Khan for neglecting her child (sic).Kareena, 36, shot back, Going out with friends doesnt make me any less of a good mother. Its easy to see a photograph of me and jump to conclusions, but people dont know my equation with my child. Were capable of multitasking. The actor has worked from time to time since Taimurs birth, walking the runway at a fashion show and shooting for a commercial in London.Is it really tough for a mother to balance fun, work and parenting No, say experts, adding that its rather important for a woman to take a break after embracing motherhood.Dr Gitanjali Sharma, relationship expert, says, More than 50 per cent of women go though post-partum blues and often slip into depression because theyre confined to their rooms or just take care of the baby. One has to meet friends and look after their own happiness, both physically and mentally, to be able to raise the child in a fit and healthy way.    the one I live for.. #danishsummer #denmarkdiaries A post shared by Mandira Bedi (@mandirabedi) on Jul 13, 2017 at 10:54pm PDT Actor Mandira Bedi, mother to a five-year-old son, adds in agreement, Even a parent needs a break. For me, even those early 40 days, when I was with my son all the time, my only sanity would be when I went for a run, jog and exercise. That would give me some balance. A parent needs a break from the child, even if youre a working parent.On why celebrity parents are targets of trolls, Dr Kamal Khurana, mentor for personal transformation, says that people always want to know [more] about a public figure. The moment you make a statement or ask a question, it, by default, becomes a judgment. In Kareenas case, Id say there are different parenting styles, so its not fair to judge. We just need to understand that no parent would want to do harm to the child, he says. Follow @htshowbiz for more