Family of every martyr will get 1 crore in MP: CM Chouhan.
Madhya Pradesh Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced in the state assembly that the government from now on will give Rs one crore as compensation to the family members of anyone from the state who attains martyrdom for the country.Speaking on the adjournment moved by the Opposition Congress party on the Mandsaur police firing in which six farmers were killed, Chouhan said, "Opposition members are questioning me. Asking why I gave compensation of Rs one crore to those whose family members died in the police firing. I just want to say I have my own style of working. I want to make this announcement right now. I hope I never have to do this but god forbid if anyone from the state gets martyred, my government will give a compensation of Rs one crore to the family members."Earlier speaking on the adjournment, leader of Opposition, Ajay Singh charged the government of trivialising the issue and refuted charges of the Congress party's role in the violence. "The government is charging us with indulging in violence. We were not part of the agitation from day one but yes we stood by the farmers after six of them were killed in police firing.  We still stand with the farmers and the government should accept that it was failure on the part of its machinery," he said.Ajay Singh also raised the issue of farmers committing suicide across the state and read out names of farmers who committed suicide in the chief minister's home district after June 6. "Had the state government legislated the moneylender's act as was announced in 2011, the situation would never had arisen as most of the farmers are committing suicide after getting into a debt trap," he said.Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in return read out the figures of suicides committed by farmers during the Congress' rule. Also read:Madhya Pradesh: 42 farmers commit suicide since Mandsaur firing, Shivraj Singh's Sehore tops the list Revealed: What is killing India's farmers India Today exclusive 