Gurugram civic body to auction 20 tax defaulter properties.
 Property tax defaulters may be forced to consider clearing their dues with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), as the civic body has decided to auction 20 properties of defaulters on August 8 after failing to recover the arrears.The MCG has sealed 519 buildings in the city, all of which now face the possibility of being auctioned off.?Any building or land situated within the jurisdiction of the MCG is liable to property tax. To encourage and assist taxpayers, rebate schemes have been in place since February. However, many residents chose to decline the offer and not make their payments. Hence, as per Section 130 (manner of recovering tax or fee) of the Haryana Municipal Act 1994, tax defaulters were issued multiple notices on their property tax dues. Since, they failed to clear their dues despite these measures, the MCG will now consider selling their properties to recover its dues.? SS Rohilla, spokesperson of MCG, said.The 20 properties are located at DLF Phase 4, sectors 43, 48, 57, 14, 16, Udyog Vihar Phase 5, Udyog Vihar Phase 4, Udyog Vihar Phase 1, Gadoli, Kherki Daula, Pace City 2 and Amar Colony.Incidentally, HT story last week had highlighted that MCG officials are pondering over auctioning 14 properties for recovering property tax dues.Read I Gurgaon: MCG extends deadline for property tax payment till April 30MCG officials were due to start the auctioning process from May 20, but seeing high recovery due to rebate schemes, it deferred the process indefinitely and introduced more such schemes till July 15. So far, this year, the MCG has collected over ?400 crore in property tax against ?387 crore netted last year. FIR filed against two for thrashing MCG staffMCG officials filed a FIR with Phase2 police station against two people for thrashing their staff while they were catching stray animals during its campaign at Nathupur on Wednesday.According to MCG officials, the accused were identified as Kalu and Sundar. Both are residents of Nathupur. As per MCG officials, when they started their operation, a group of 15-20 people came out with  batons, hockey sticks and iron rods and demanded that the officials stop catching stray animals, as they claimed the animals belonged to them.Soon, the two accused allegedly started thrashing four MCG officials, who suffered minor injuries.?Stray animals are a nuisance in the city as they block roads and cause snarls. Any kind of obstruction during MCG?s campaign directed at stray animals will not be tolerated and legal action will follow,? MCG Commissioner V Umashankar said.