South Delhi civic body to fine people defecating in open .
To prevent open defecation, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued a circular authorising its health and sanitation officials to fine the violators on the spot. The fine amount has been fixed at Rs 50, as per a circular issued by SDMC. All deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure compliance of these directions. The step has been taken in compliance with Supreme Courts order (in 2000) to recover charges from person littering or throwing rubbish and causing nuisance so as to affect the sanitation and public health, said officials.Though we have been making all efforts to make our area open defecation free, it is also important to make the people habitual of using public toilet complexes. Unfortunately, people living close to railway tracks still defecate in open. Besides issuing challans, we will educate such people with the help of NGOs, said South DMC commissioner Puneet Goel.To change the behaviour of public toilet users, the Union ministry of urban development in collaboration of the SDMC launched Swachh Shauchalaya Campaign on Wednesday. It was launched by cricketer Suresh Raina  one of the Brand Ambassadors of Swachh Bharat Mission. More than the construction of public toilets, it is their effective maintenance which is the biggest challenge. Users often dont flush, leave the toilet dirty and the theft of bulbs, taps, bins, door etc is also common. The campaign aims to change the behaviour, inculcate a sense of responsibility and ownership, said DS Mishra, secretary UD ministry. North DMC targets to make all wards open defecation free by year endThe North Delhi Municipal Corporation has declared 90 wards open defecation free on Wednesday. These are the areas where arrangements for public toilets and mobile toilet vans have already been made, claimed officials.In rest of 14 wards, the civic agency has proposed to construct nine community toilet complexes with provision for 180 seats. The places where these would be constructed include Sawda-Ghevra, Bawana and Nareala area. The work has already been initiated and expected to be completed by October 2017. Besides, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board  has promised to construct 2241 seats toilet facilities December, 2017, said Preety Agarwal, mayor, North DMC.Municipal Commissioner, Praveen Gupta said that additional facility of 302 number of seats would be created, out of which 112 number of seats are constructed. In 48 toilets, 96 seats are exclusively for ladies. These are likely to be completed by September 2017.