TV actor slams serial on 9-year-old boy marrying adult woman.
Television actor Karan Wahi has expressed his disappointment at the makers of Pehredaar Piya Ki, Sony?s new daily soap, for showing a romantic angle between an adult woman and a preteen boy.Wahi took to Facebook to share his concern on the quality of content being shown on television. ?Dear producer and channel, I understand we cant make shows like How I Met Your Mother and Friends, and honestly I don?t expect us to also, but for the love of god and for the reason we all got in this industry please don?t sell me stupidity in the name of content which gives TRP because honestly no one is watching this,? he wrote in the post.?Leave aside other people, I think the fraternity only doesn?t (watch the show). I wish and pray well for everyone who is a part of this show also but it would be great if we started enjoying our work and not just working because we don?t have an option. Not to sound arrogant but we can be better than this,? he added.Pehredaar Piya Ki aired its first episode on Monday. It tells the story of a 9-year-old prince who is put under the care and security of his adult wife. Even the promos, when released about a month ago, got a lot of flak for showing a romantic relationship between a child and an adult. The trailer showed child actor Afaan Khan put vermillion on Tejaswi Prakash, causing a furore among viewers.The show?s synopsis on YouTube reads: ?While Diya takes up her duty of a wife and willfully commits to the relationship, Ratan is enamored by her beauty and considers her to be a pari from the fairy tales he has heard from his Maasa. Though being a miss matched couple, both create a comfortable world for themselves. While 9-year-old husband tries to cheer up his wife Diya with his cute gestures, Diya keeps up the promise to protect him and nurture their relationship. Will Diya and Ratan rewrite the pages of history with their love story? Is age only a number when it comes to finding true love? Watch the unfolding of a beautiful fairytale as Pehredaar Piya Ki presents the most unique Jodi on Indian television.?    Pehredaar Piya Ki ?? ?? @tejasswiprakash baby smile :) plz ?? Guys watever @imkaranwahi said its his pov no1 can question him neither me nor you guys. But this doesnt change the fact that WE the whole team of #PPK we love this show and we all have worked really hard for it and we still are andddd we will ?? our motive is to entertain you guys not promote child marriage or anything. This show is different , plz dont judge it and jump onto conclusions ?? If a channel like @sonytvofficial has approved the show they must have thought something right ??? Even d producers must have thought a lot before making this and investing soo much money ?? its my req to all,plz watch it first and then decide :) maybe m wrong MAYBE :) but lets wait n then decide. Love to all ???? n thanku for sucha good response for the frst epi .?? @tejasswiprakash baby smile :) plz ?? A post shared by Suyyash Ranjana Rai (@suyyashrai) on Jul 19, 2017 at 1:50am PDTActor Suyyash Rai, who is a part of the show, made a post on Instagram saying that Karan?s views are his own and the show doesn?t support child marriage. ?Guys, whatever Karan Wahi said it?s his point of view. No one can question him neither me nor you guys. But this doesn?t change the fact that we, the whole team of #PPK, we love this show and we all have worked really hard for it and we still are and we will. Our motive is to entertain you guys not promote child marriage or anything. This show is different , please don?t judge it and jump onto conclusions. If a channel like Sony has approved the show they must have thought something right? Even the producers must have thought a lot before making this and investing so much money. It?s my request to all, please watch it first and then decide. Maybe m wrong maybe but lets wait and then decide. Love to all and thank you for such a good response for the first episode. Tejasswi Prakash baby smile please,? he wrote with the post.Follow @htshowbiz for more