Kangana gets injured by prop sword on sets of Manikarnika.
Kangana Ranaut was injured after being accidentally struck by a prop sword on the sets of her new film, Manikarnika - The Queen Of Jhansi. A Mid-Day report says that the actor was shooting an action scene in Hyderabad, when she was struck on her forehead. She was immediately taken to a hospital, where she is expected to remain for a week.Kangana was immediately rushed to Apollo hospital nearby, where she was admitted into the ICU. She got 15 stitches on her forehead and will be under observation in the hospital for a few days. The examining doctor said that it was a close shave for her because the cut was too close to her bone, a production hand said.    Oh-No! Kangana Ranaut gets injured on the sets of Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi. @pinkvilla  . . #kanganaranaut #manikarnikathequeenofjhansi #bollywood #actress #star #newmovie #injury #manikarnika #beautiful #fierce #strong #pinkvilla A post shared by Pinkvilla (@pinkvilla) on Jul 19, 2017 at 11:26pm PDT According to producer Kamal Jain, Kangana insisted on shooting the scene herself, and not with the help of stunt doubles. Even though the scene was rehearsed numerous times, something went wrong. Kangana had to duck when Nihar (Pandya) attacked her, but the timing went wrong and Nihars sword hit her forehead instead. It made a deep cut between her eyebrows. The drive to the hospital took a good 30 minutes, but she put up a brave front despite the pain and bleeding. Nihar was apologetic and felt terrible, but Kangana pacified him, he said.     Kangana gets injured on the sets of her next movie. Kangana Ranaut who has been away from the city has been busy shooting for Manikarnika in Hyderabad. The actress had some major sword fighting scenes to shoot yesterday with co-star Nihar Pandya. During the shoot unfortunately the actress got injured and got a deep cut on her forehead. . As soon as the unfortunate accident occurred, the feisty actress was rushed to the Apollo Hospital amidst pain and blood loss. She got a total of 15 stitches on the forehead and has been advised rest for four days. . When we spoke to Kangana about the injury, she said, "I am a bit embarrassed to be thrilled to have a battle scar on my face. Also, people from my team have been telling me that it's like that Peshwa teeka that Manikarnika wore. It's a bit dramatic but I am excited that my face was covered in blood and I got a genuine and authentic glimpse of the Queen's life." . Kangana has been training hard in sword fighting under Hollywood stunt director Nick Powell. She is also taking horse riding lessons. Directed by Krish, Manikarnika - The Queen of Jhansi has Kangana playing the title role of Jhansi Rani Laxmibai. . #kanganaranaut #instantbollywood #bollywood A post shared by Instant Bollywood (@instantbollywood) on Jul 20, 2017 at 12:25am PDT Speaking to Pinkvilla, Kangana said, I am a bit embarrassed to be thrilled to have a battle scar on my face. Also, people from my team have been telling me that its like that Peshwa teeka that Manikarnika wore. Its a bit dramatic but I am excited that my face was covered in blood and I got a genuine and authentic glimpse of the Queens life.Manikarnika - The Queen Of Jhansi, is scheduled for release in 2018. It remains to be seen if this delays the production significantly.Follow @htshowbiz for more