Picture of Sushant in spacesuit at NASA shared online.
Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput is all set to get special training at NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) for his upcoming film, Chanda Mama Door Ke, where he plays an astronaut. In a new picture shared on Twitter, Sushant is seen wearing a white spacesuit. Taran Adarsh shared the picture and wrote, ?Sushant Singh Rajput to undergo special training at NASA?s Space & Rocket Center... Enacts the part of an astronaut in #ChandaMamaDoorKe.? Earlier, talking to a website al.com, the actor had said about real astronauts, ?Their training is something else, much deeper. They are trained to be put in a situation where you?re facing problems for the first time. So, with all your experience, with all your skills, with all your way of concentrating and not being anxious ? it?s not a question of pass or fail, it?s a question of life or death.?Sushant Singh Rajput to undergo special training at NASA's Space & Rocket Center... Enacts the part of an astronaut in #ChandaMamaDoorKe... pic.twitter.com/W4b9BYELCE? taran adarsh (@taran_adarsh) August 2, 2017Sushant visited the NASA centre in the US in July to prepare for the space adventure to experience zero gravity. Earlier, Sushant shared his photos from the visit to the US Space & Rocket Center. Dressed in a space suit and a cap, the actor was in full astronaut mode. Another photo was accompanied with a post stating: ?From a miniature Rocket to a life size one, this grown up kid will never cease to Dream. My mother always wanted her ?Sushant in Space?. (sic).?From a miniature Rocket to a life size one , this grown up kid will never cease to Dream.My mother always wanted her' Sushant in Space '!! pic.twitter.com/9z4pI61PRF? Sushant Singh Rajput (@itsSSR) July 22, 2017Neutral buoyancy, space walk drills and Orion simulations are were so much fun !! Can't wait to try more :) pic.twitter.com/8Xy1xBpngJ? Sushant Singh Rajput (@itsSSR) July 23, 2017Sending SOS from this tiny boxCause tonight I'm feeling like an..!!?? pic.twitter.com/7WanvgsiWF? Sushant Singh Rajput (@itsSSR) July 23, 2017The actor is reportedly being trained in neutral buoyancy, undergoing spacewalk drills and moon walks, experiencing zero gravity and Orion simulations. Directed by Sanjay Puran Singh Chauhan, the film also stars Nawazuddin Siddiqui and R. Madhavan.Follow @htshowbiz for more