I choose Roger, Roger chooses me in video games: Sachin.
The friendship between Sachin Tendulkar and Roger Federer is well-documented, and India?s shining example of sporting longevity was at hand to witness the Swiss maestro sweep to a record eighth Wimbledon triumph aged 35.Tendulkar, who was in the Royal Box when Federer crushed Croatia?s Marin Cilic in straight sets in Sunday?s final spoke of the mutual admiration, which extends to the virtual world as well.?Roger follows cricket. Also, something which I learnt is that when Roger is playing video games, he prefers (to use) Sachin and when I am playing any racquet game, I prefer to be Roger,? Tendulkar said here on Tuesday after being unveiled as brand ambassador of the Sony sports network. READ?|?Sachin Tendulkar heaps praises on Mithali Raj, calls her ?tremendous athlete?Tendulkar, who signed off on his grand career in 2013, recalled the joy of watching different sports. ?It is fantastic because you rub shoulders with some of the champions, not just in the current era. When I was at Wimbledon, I got to meet the great Rod Laver, Bjorn Borg, they are all amazing personalities.?When I go to Formula One, I get to meet great personalities who have achieved so much. To be there and breathe and soak in that atmosphere is incredible.?I remember a race in Silverstone when Sir Frank Williams was there and also Sir Jackie Stewart, the great F1 champion. Sir Jackie took a grid walk with me and said ?I will take you all around and tell you more about F1?.? READ?|?Wimbledon 2017: Roger Federer got a hangover due to post-title win celebrationsTendulkar urged Indian fans to whole-heartedly support the Fifa U-17 World Cup, which India will host from October. ?The age of 17 in today?s world is not young. It is just about when you are looking to be competitive, it is the age when you are looking to push hard and sometimes cross the line. But there are guys who stay within limits and go out and deliver.?For any sportsperson, the best thing is how the spectators are responding, and this is India?s great opportunity to show our support for other sports; this is only about taking it to the next level. I am sure the spectators won?t disappoint us Indians, go out and support those youngsters, and above all Indians.? 