Govt launches 'mAadhaar' app for Aadhaar data on phone.
You will be able to carry your Aadhaar's demographic information on your smartphone from now on. This will be possible via the newly launched mAadhaar application by the Unique Authentication of India (UIDAI). mAadhaar or Mobile Aadhaar will let you carry the digital version of your Aadhaar eKYC details on your smartphone, just as the name suggests. This can be done just by signing up to the mAadhaar app, which is already available for download via the Google Play store. For now, the mAadhaar app announced by UIDAI is available for the Android smartphone users only. However, chances are that it might soon roll out to the iOS users as well. With this initiative, UIDAI reduces the burden of carrying the Aadhaar card everywhere you go, given the fact that Aadhaar eKYC details are required for everything today. Modi Government has been talking about digital India for a long time now, and this (mAadhaar) is yet another move for the digital future. So, how does the mAadhaar app works Here are all the details, and the features you should know. All that needs to be done is download the mAadhaar application on Android phone first, and then login with Aadhaar details. After which you will be able to download your Aadhaar number profile. "This is a convenient way to carry Aadhaar number with demographic details anytime, anywhere," mentions the app description. Apart from providing the digital version of the Aadhaar card, the app does a lot more.  Also Read: Before filing Income Tax returns, use these steps to link Aadhaar number with PAN cardmAadhaar app also allow you to lock or unlock their biometrics data. Further, you will be able to secure biometric authentication by locking biometrics data. However, in case someone at some point wants to unlock their biometric details, they can also do that. They can simply disable the locking system on the app.Furthermore, the mAadhaar app also comes with Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP) feature as well. Time-based One-Time Password is basically an automatically generated temporary password which can be used instead of SMS based OTP. This will ensure that the your details are much safer than ever. mAadhaar application also allow you to get the updated view of the profile upon completion of the update request. Further, the app also let users share QR code and password protected eKYC data to retrieve accurate demographic information from it instead of manual entry.Before login in with the mAdhaar app, it should be ensured that your phones number is linked to their Aadhaar card. The app description mentions: "Registered Mobile Number is essential to use mAadhaar app. In case your mobile number is not registered with Aadhaar visit the nearest Enrolment Centre/Mobile Update End Point."--Visit nearest Aadhar Center -- Fill the Aadhaar Data update or correction form-- Provide ID proof along with the Form 