BJP to launch separate cell for young women in Delhi.
With the aim to engage and mobilise young women in the age group of 18-25 years, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi has planned to set up ?Yuvti Prakoshth? (Young Women?s Cell) for the first time. The proposed unit will not be the part of either Mahila Morcha (Women?s Wing) or Yuva Morcha (Youth Wing), and will work as an independent division. The decision has been taken following the directions of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). A party leader privy to the development said Ram Lal, national general secretary (organisation) of the BJP, had asked the state leadership to expand its base among young females, especially those who stay at home. ?While interacting with the state leadership during party president Amit Shah?s pravas (stay) in Delhi last week, Ram Lalji directed to bring young women to party fold. His view was that there are women who are impressed with party?s policies and ideology, but they don?t come out for different reasons. A special drive should be initiated to persuade them to join the party,? the leader said. Following Ram Lal?s instruction, state unit chief Manoj Tiwari has directed its Youth Wing (all 14 district presidents) to carry out an identification drive. ?The members of the Youth Wing have been asked to prepare a list of women in the age group of 18-25 years and are willing to work for the outfit. In the first phase, the district or block level leaders will prepare a list. Thereafter, a detailed strategy will be chalked out for further course of action. They are specifically been told that no pressure should be put on anyone, and to invite only those who are keen to join,? said a party insider. The BJP leaders, justifying the move, said the proposed cell will facilitate to tap a large section of the society, which generally remains ?unattended?. ?Female students mostly go to the Youth Wing and to work with the Mahila Morcha, one should be aged 25. Therefore, a significant number of women in the age group of 18-25 years are not actively involved in political activities. The party now plans to focus on this age group to strengthen the organisation further in the city,? he said.