Noida police train 20 volunteers to regulate traffic .
The Noida traffic police imparted road safety training to 20 volunteers on Sunday who will assist them in reducing vehicular congestion and curbing traffic violations in their respective residential areas.Earlier in June, the traffic police had appealed to residents through social networking sites to assist them in reducing traffic congestion. Residents welfare associations were also roped in to encourage residents to be a part of the initiative.Officials said that the volunteers will also be given reflector jackets for their safety and identification. The volunteers will mostly have to perform their duty during the peak hour when there is a high volume of traffic on city roads.On Sunday, the superintendent of police (traffic), Anil Kumar Jha interacted with the traffic volunteers at his office in Sector 14A and briefed them on their role. He assured them all assistance from the traffic police for regulating traffic movement on city roads.He also made them aware of the major traffic problems in Noida and sought their cooperation to curb them. Jha said that forty volunteers have extended their support and will work in their free time to streamline movement on city roads.The next batch of 20 volunteers will be given training in the coming week, the police said. Those who were given training were also provided reflector jackets and whistles to man traffic.Traffic inspector Layak Singh said that the volunteers will mostly be stationed at intersections, markets and roads. Noida city has 301 intersections and not all are equipped with traffic signals.Singh said that the initiative will generate awareness among commuters to follow traffic rules. Another reason behind inviting volunteers is a shortage of traffic personnel in Gautam Budh Nagar.According to senior police officials, the traffic police department has a shortage of 130 traffic personnel in the district. The department has two traffic inspectors, two traffic sub-inspectors, 38 head constables and 113 constables in the district.