Stabbed teen kept waiting at Ghaziabad police station.
Uttar Pradesh police have launched a probe against officials at the Vijay Nagar police station in Ghaziabad after a widely shared video of their alleged laxity and inhumane behaviour in dealing with a profusely bleeding teen stab victim before sending him to a hospital.Fourteen-year-old Qadir from Vijay Nagar had reached the police station around 11 am on Friday with a stab wound on his hand. The disturbing images showed that the boy roamed around at the police station complex in pain and blood running down his body as he covered his grievous injury with his shirt to stop the bleeding.However, the policemen kept him waiting for nearly 20 minutes and remained busy with their documentation and did not show up any urgency to rush him to a hospital.?I was speaking on my mobile and some neighbours arrived who snatched my phone. I resisted and one of them stabbed me,? Qadir said.The video of the boy bleeding heavily and roaming inside the police station was shot by local man and was soon widely shared on social media.#Ghaziabad: Injured minor boy roaming around at Vijay Nagar police station, seeking police help on July 14 @htTweets pic.twitter.com/rUccxHDtxf? Peeyush Khandelwal (@journopk) July 15, 2017#Ghaziabad: Police behavior of Vijay Nagar personnel with injured boy and his mother as they are sent to hospital on July 14 @httweets pic.twitter.com/FdHjr2bq4y? Peeyush Khandelwal (@journopk) July 15, 2017Later, the boy and his mother, who was also injured, were rudely packed off in an auto rickshaw to the hospital. One of the constables on duty handed her the documents and said, ?Pakdo is, chal... (hold this and move),? and told the auto driver to take them away and he will be reaching soon.The station house officer (SHO) said that a case was registered against the attacker and legal proceedings are underway.Senior police officials on Saturday took cognizance of the videos and said that they have initiated an inquiry into the behaviour of the personnel at the Vijay Nagar station.?We have set up an inquiry into the incident. Actually, the officials were busy preparing the documentation which is to be sent to the hospital for medical examination. But the officials were expected to have shown proper behaviour and should have attended to the injured boy. We will fix up the responsibility of the officials after the inquiry,? said Manisha Singh, circle officer (city I).