Funny how one wrong word can screw your career: Tiger.
Tiger Shroff has stayed away from any negative stories around him, ever since he started his career in Bollywood  in 2014. However, the actors recent comment, where he allegedly referred to his Student of the Year 2 co-stars as padding, didnt go down well with people and he was trolled on social media.Although Tiger did clarify his stance on this, talking to us recently, he again picked on the subject and shared his views. I dont understand why people these days overreact unnecessarily on everything that an actor says. I used padding so casually and got badly scr**ed. Its so funny how using one wrong word can screw up your career, says Tiger.    Hope you are ready to hit the streets, #DingDang will be out today at 4:30 pm you can also watch it exclusively on @eros_now :) #MunnaMichael @nidhhiagerwal @sabbir24x7 @vikirajani @filmsnextgen A post shared by Tiger Shroff (@tigerjackieshroff) on Jun 18, 2017 at 11:03pm PDT The 27-year-old, who is in Delhi to promote his next film, Munna Michael, was at his composed best throughout the interview but got visibly upset when he recalled the recent backlash that he faced. I mean, come on! I am not a sexist or a racist or anything like that. I dont get under peoples skin or pick up unnecessary fights. Everyone knows the kind of person I am, says Tiger, adding that his statement was highly misunderstood.The actor maintains that nowhere in his comments he meant to demean his female co-stars. I know the question was asked in context of my co-stars but my answer was taken in a different context. I just want to prove that journalist wrong. If you ask me, I might be a padding for the girls and I might help them and they might help me. I never meant that theyre mere props on set, says Tiger.    Take number 24....body slowed down...got weaker...but thinking about the king kept me going. #beparwah #bts #munnamichael #21st A post shared by Tiger Shroff (@tigerjackieshroff) on Jul 13, 2017 at 10:46pm PDT Explaining what he meant, he adds, What I meant by padding was that directors and producers pad-up  provide a cushion and package a film. Casting Tiger Shroff may also be some sort of a padding, because even I have only that much to offer. 