Firm recalls flip-flops on fears of cancer-causing chemical.
Primark has recalled thousands of pairs of flip-flops after discovering they contain a chemical that can cause cancer.The high street chain is recalling three colours ? black, blue and khaki ? from its men?s Cedar Wood State flip-flop range and offering customers a full refund.A statement on the company?s website said: ?It has come to our attention that the footwear product detailed above does not meet the Primark usual high standards for chemical compliance.?We have found levels of a restricted substance in the product in excess of the 1.0 mg/kg requirement.? A Primark spokesman told the Guardian the chemical in question was chrysene, which is a regulated chemical commonly used in dark coloured dyes. Chrysene has been found to have a carcinogenic risk to humans and can cause cancer, reports Science Direct.However, a Primark spokesman said: ?At the levels found in the flip-flop, we believe the health and safety risk to customers is minimal.?The shoes were taken off the shelves on 2 June after being on sale since January.The problem was discovered by Primark when it followed up an inquiry by a third party, it has been reported. The company has suspended any outstanding orders from the factory which makes the flip-flops and an investigation has been launched. The spokesman said: ?We take the safety of our customers, and the quality of our products, very seriously, which is why we have chosen to recall three men?s flip-flops from our Cedar Wood State range. ?All new orders with this factory have been suspended while we carry out a thorough investigation. A full refund is being offered to all customers.?It is the third product recall Primark has issued this year. Earlier this year, Primark had to recall pairs of children?s leggings emblazoned with cats after it was discovered that small pink bows on the knees posed a potential choking hazard.In February, the company pulled a range of The Walking Dead T-shirts from its stores after complaints of racism from customers. The serial numbers of affected flip-flops are: Customers do not need to provide proof of purchase to get a refund.