Got my debut film on my 25th birthday: Bhumi Pednekar.
Birthdays have always been special for Bhumi Pednekar, but the most memorable one was in 2014. That year, on July 18, she got the call for her maiden Bollywood film, Dum Laga Ke Haisha, which released in 2015. And the actor shares that she had taken leave from work that day, and was sleeping when her phone rang. ?I didn?t know how to react because I remember going back to sleep again. I?was in shock I guess (laughs). It was my mom and sister, who came from the other room and were very excited to tell me that I have bagged the role. They hugged me and got emotional,? recalls Bhumi. The film brought into spotlight and since then there has been no looking back.This year, Bhumi is looking forward to the release of two films, one with Akshay Kumar ?Toilet: Ek Prem Kath?and the other with Ayushmann Khurrana?Shubh Mangal Savdhan. Currently promoting the film with Akshay and dubbing for the other one, Bhumi says it will be a working birthday for her. However, she is expecting a surprise party from her friends.     Boss Girl ?? Throw back to the days of chokers and sari's ?? #toiletekpremkatha #tepk #tbt #BhumiXjaya A post shared by Bhumi Pednekar (@psbhumi) on Jul 5, 2017 at 11:16pm PDT?I feel like princess on my birthdays, thanks to my family and friends. They have always showered love on me and made each of my birthdays a memorable experience. This year too, I guess won?t be different. Also, like always I visit a temple to offer prayers, and celebrate the occasion with Rashid kaka (her close family friend) and his family,? says Bhumi, as she recalls one of her most cherished birthday gift.    The best love stories have known the greatest pain. Here's #LatthMaar for you ? @akshaykumar Link in bio A post shared by Bhumi Pednekar (@psbhumi) on Jul 11, 2017 at 7:41pm PDT?A few years ago, my parents gifted me a special heirloom piece of jewellery that belonged to my naani. They felt that I was responsible enough to own it now,? recalls Bhumi, who turns 28 this year. Ask her if turning old gives her any jitters, she adds, ?The day I turned 18, I was very upset. But I then I have just moved on and now, I have realised that age is just a number.?Follow @htshowbiz for more