I think after 126 films, I did an overdose of cinema: Suniel.
His daughter Athiya made her film debut while son Ahan will soon step into Bollywood and actor Suniel Shetty has said that he is completely immersed in guiding his children in their respective careers now.Athiya will soon be seen with Arjun Kapoor and Anil Kapoor in Mubarakan.
							(Instagram/AthiyaShetty)
						The actor believes he has done enough films in his 25- year-old career and should now focus on his childrens future in Bollywood. I think after doing 126 movies, one cant say I have not been doing that many films. I did an overdose of cinema. I needed to take a break. This is a period where I need to focus on my children. Athiya and Ahans careers are more important to me. I think I should take it easy and focus on them and share with them whatever I have learnt, Shetty said.He has been away from the big screen for three years and will be next seen playing the antagonist in A Gentleman, starring Sidharth Malhotra. I was away for three and half years and now I am back. I have a small but important role in it. I have also signed other projects, says Shetty.    Happy birthday to my hero, my inspiration and undoubtedly the most beautiful soul. I love you Papaaaaaaaa Thank you for being my strength. #MyDaddyStrongest 55 @suniel.shetty A post shared by Athiya Shetty (@athiyashetty) on Aug 10, 2016 at 11:04pm PDT His daughter Athiyas maiden film Hero, which featured another newcomer- Sooraj Pancholi, was not a blockbuster. But the actor says he is very proud of his daughters first effort in Bollywood. Two newcomers brought in Rs 37 crore at the box office. That is not bad at all. I am indebted to Salman Khan (the producer) and Nikhil Advani (director).Athiyas next film Mubarakan is releasing two years after her debut but Shetty has said he is not worried about the long gap between and appreciates Athiyas patience and choice of movies. She has learnt to be patient. Her second film will release soon. She wants to do the best films. I am proud of the way she is going about her career. Ahan will make his debut in Sajid Nadiadwalas upcoming untitled production.Shetty was in the capital for the Super Boxing League. Follow @htshowbiz for more